TI Localization of collaborations in knowledge creation
DE Healthcare information technology; adoption; diffusion; knowledge spillover; cultural capital; social capital; economic capital; institutional-arrangement-based social capital; geographic-proximity-based social capital; Saidin index; digital advantage
AB This study investigates the localization of collaboration in knowledge creation by using data on Japanese patent applications. Applying distance-based methods, we obtained the following results. First, collaborations are significantly localized at the 5% level with a localization range of approximately 100km. Second, the localization of collaboration is observed in most technologies. Third, the extent of localization was stable from 1986 to 2005 despite extensive developments in information and communications technology that facilitate communication between remote organizations. Fourth, the extent of localization is substantially greater in inter-firm collaborations than in intra-firm collaborations. Furthermore, in inter-firm collaborations, the extent of localization is greater in collaborations with small firms. This result suggests that geographic proximity mitigates the firm-border effects on collaborations, especially for small firms.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Protectionist policies and diversity of entrepreneurial types
DE Diversity of local entrepreneurship; Protectionist; MNE; Tariff; Subsidy; Local entrepreneurship
AB In recent years, there have been vigorous debates on whether restricting the operations of foreign multinational enterprises (MNEs) through various protectionist policies would allow local entrepreneurs to flourish. Research suggests that, although knowledge spillovers from MNEs can provide positive impetus to local entrepreneurship, MNE may also crowd out entrepreneurial firms. In this study, we examine how policies restricting MNEs' entry affect local entrepreneurship, especially the diversity of the new firms being created. Using an agent-based simulation of an ecosystem, we model the dynamic interplay between MNEs' knowledge spillover and diversity of local entrepreneurship and how two protectionist policies-tariffs on imports and subsidies for local entrepreneurs-impact this dynamic. We develop a fine-grained understanding of how such policies can both enhance and constrain different types of local entrepreneurship.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Inclusive innovation and the role of technological capability-building: The social business Grameen Danone Foods Limited in Bangladesh
DE Technological capability-building; Inclusive innovation; Social business; Multinational enterprises; Learning; Business models; Social impact; Bangladesh
AB This article examines how a least developed country-based social business first creates operational capabilities (OCs) and then, over time, builds innovative capabilities (ICs) to fulfil a social need, be self-sustainable and achieve inclusive innovation. This relationship is examined in Bangladesh's Grameen Danone Foods Limited (GDFL) by integrating the technological capability and inclusive innovation theoretical frameworks and by using data gathered through extensive fieldwork. Broadly, our findings show how GDFL built and accumulated basic and intermediate ICs to undertake innovative activities in all areas of operation. Specifically, our findings scrutinize the process in which a social business develops and organizes its resources to initially build OCs and engage in the creation of ICs through various learning mechanisms to deliver inclusive innovation. From this process, we also observe a set of unpredicted positive spillovers to the community, which expands the inclusiveness effect. The findings also suggest that having a social orientation, triggers the use of different resources from within and outside the firm to achieve inclusive innovation. We conclude by discussing the study's implications for scholars, policy-makers and managers of multinational's social businesses. We also' highlight future research areas, and crucially those related to key emerging conceptual limitations of inclusive innovation and development.
WC Business; Development Studies; Management

TI Research, knowledge transfer, and innovation: The effect of Italian universities' efficiency on local economic development 2006-2012
DE efficiency of universities; higher education; knowledge spillovers; local economic development
AB We test whether there is a link between the performance of universities, measured through a concept of efficiency, and the economic development of the regions in which they operate. Indicators of teaching, research, and third mission are considered as outputs. To handle endogeneity problems between the efficiency of universities and economic development, a system generalized method of moments and then an instrumental variable approach are used. Our findings reveal that the presence of efficient universities fosters local economic development. Knowledge spillovers occur to areas that are in close geographical proximity to efficient universities. Results are robust to different estimation strategies.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Do deeper regional trade agreements enhance international technology spillovers?
DE deep integration; patent citations; regional trade agreements; technology spillovers
AB We examine whether regional trade agreements (RTAs) enhance international technology spillovers using a panel of patent citation data for 114 countries/regions for the period 1991-2007. We use patent citations as a proxy for technology spillovers. The focus of this study is on whether the depth of regional integration matters for technology spillovers among member countries/regions of RTAs. The depth of integration is measured by the extent to which an RTA includes legal obligations outside the current mandate of the World Trade Organization. We find that the depth of integration actually influences technology spillovers and that a deeper integration in a broad sense has a greater impact on technology spillovers than do technology-related provisions.
WC Business, Finance; Economics; International Relations

TI Location determinants of green technological entry: evidence from European regions
DE Green entrepreneurship; NTBFs; Technological entry; Relatedness; Regional branching; Spatial path dependence
AB In this paper, we explore the spatial distribution and the location determinants of new green technology-based firms across European regions. Integrating insights from evolutionary economic geography and the literature on knowledge spillovers, we study the importance of new knowledge creation and the conditioning role played by regional technological relatedness in fostering combinatorial opportunities underlying the process of green technological entry. The analysis is based on a dataset covering over 900 NUTS3 regions for 15 European countries obtained merging economic data from ESPON-Eurostat and patent information from the PATSTAT-CRIOS database for the period 1996-2006. Our results show that the geographical distribution of green technological entry across European regions is not evenly distributed, offering evidence of spatial path dependence. In line with this, we find evidence of a significant role played by the characteristics of the regional innovation system. New green innovators are more likely to develop in regions defined by higher levels of technological activity underlying knowledge spillovers and more dynamism in technological entry. Moreover, our findings point to an inverted-U relationship between regional technological relatedness and green technological entry. Regions whose innovation activity is defined by cognitive proximity to environmental technologies support interactive learning and knowledge spillovers underlying entrepreneurship in this specific area. However, too much relatedness may cause technological lock-ins and reduce the set of combinatorial opportunities.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Green start-ups and local knowledge spillovers from clean and dirty technologies
DE Green start-ups; New firm formation; Energy-related technologies; Knowledge-spillovers theory of entrepreneurship
AB There is wide consensus about the importance of green technologies in achieving superior economic and environmental performances. However, the literature on their determinants has neglected the creation of green start-ups as a way of introducing green technologies onto the market. Drawing upon the knowledge spillovers theory of entrepreneurship (KSTE) and on previous literature on the complex and systemic nature of green technologies, we have tested the relevance of local knowledge stocks, distinguishing between clean and dirty stocks, in the creation of green start-ups. Moreover, the effects of the technological composition of local stocks have been investigated, by focusing on both related and unrelated technological variety, as well as on coherence. Consistently with the recent literature, green start-ups are associated with higher levels of variety, thus pointing to the relevance of diverse and heterogeneous knowledge sources, although in related and complementary technological fields.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Good neighbors, bad neighbors: local knowledge spillovers, regional institutions and firm performance in China
DE Knowledge spillovers; Relatedness; Firm performance; Firm ownership; Regional institutions
AB Recent evolutionary economic geography studies have stressed technological relatedness as a key explanatory factor for regional industrial diversification. It is further argued that firms that manufacture products with dense connections to regional industrial structure benefit the most from local knowledge spillovers and thus should grow faster. Based on a firm-level dataset on China's manufacturing industry over the 1998-2008 period, our results indicate that the density of links between a firm's products and local industrial structure does yield firm performance enhancing spillovers. We further decompose the overall density indicator and point out the lack of connections between firms of different ownership types in terms of information exchange and technological diffusion. Finally, empirical results confirm that regional institutions play a critical role in the spillover diffusion between firms of different ownership structures.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Quality of government in European regions: do spatial spillovers matter?
DE quality of government; spatial spillovers; hybrid spatial weights matrix; regions; European Union
AB This paper examines the role played by spatial spillovers in shaping the regional distribution of quality of government across the European Union. To do so, it constructs a hybrid spatial weights matrix combining geographical, technological and social distances between the European regions. The results reveal that the quality of government in neighbouring regions has a positive and statistically significant effect on one region?s quality of government, which highlights the relevance of spatial effects in this context. This finding is robust to the inclusion in the analysis of different variables that may affect regional governance. Likewise, the observed effect of neighbouring regions does not depend on the specific dimension of governance considered, the spatial weights matrix used to describe the spatial linkages between the European regions, or the econometric specification employed to capture the nature of spatial spillovers. The results also show that policy innovations related to governance spread from regions with high and intermediate levels of quality of government.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Spatial dependence, foreign investment and productivity spillovers in new EU member states
DE foreign direct investment (FDI); total factor productivity (TFP); regions; spatial analysis; Central and Eastern European countries (CEEC)
AB This paper presents new empirical evidence on the impact of foreign direct investment (FDI) technology spillovers on the productivity of domestic firms in manufacturing and services in Central and East European regions over the period 2007-11. The complex impact of FDI is separated into direct and indirect effects while accounting for spatial feedback effects. Findings suggest that FDI presence generates negative intra- and interregional market-stealing effects on direct rivals and positive spillovers on downstream firms. The effects are larger from FDI in neighbouring regions and increase with distance.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Economies of agglomeration and their relation with industrial productivity in Brazilian municipalities
DE diversification; Economies of agglomeration; spatial dynamic panel; specialization
AB This paper aimed at analysing the effects of economies of agglomeration (location and urbanization effects) on the industrial productivity of Brazilian municipalities between 2010 and 2017, identifying their possible spillover effects on the neighbourhood as a general and also regarding regional groups. In addition, the effects of location economies of the high/medium-high and low/medium-low technology on productivity were analysed. To achieve the aims proposed, an index of industrial development was built as a proxy for the productivity and estimates were calculated using the spatial dynamic panel. As a result, the effects of specialization economies were identified in the country as whole, mainly in the industry with less intense technology.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Regional entrepreneurial ecosystems in China
DE Regional economic growth; innovation; networks; buzz and pipelines
AB This study focuses on regional entrepreneurial ecosystems in the largest emerging economy in the world. We use a two-stage structural model distinguishing between two sets of factors, those that have direct impact on entrepreneurial activities and those that have indirect impact. Based on an empirical analysis of 263 Chinese prefecture-level municipalities from 2008 to 2015, we find that human capital, knowledge creation, and access to finance are the main factors that drive local entrepreneurial activity. New technology-based startups are significant predictors of the regional stock of human capital and the presence of risk finance suggesting the unique role of technology-based firms in promoting sustainable growth in regional entrepreneurial ecosystems. The presence of research-intensive universities also has a strong positive impact on regional entrepreneurial ecosystems.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Impacts of EU funded R&D networks on the generation of key enabling technologies: Empirical evidence from a regional perspective
DE R&D networks; key enabling technologies (KETs); regional knowledge production; network embeddedness; interaction effects
AB Cross-regional R&D networks are essential for regional innovativeness. Yet, we lack insights into technology field-specific effects of a region's network connectivity. This study investigates key enabling technologies (KETs) to compare knowledge creation effects of EU funded R&D networks for different technological fields. By applying spatially filtered regression models together with marginal effect interpretations for non-linear models we quantify and compare network effects across KET fields. Results show that the generally positive network effects differ depending on region-internal endowments and the nature of the underlying technologies. Policy implications arise for the interrelations between EU research, industrial and regional policy.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Learning from yourself or learning from neighbours: knowledge spillovers, institutional context and firm upgrading
DE knowledge spillover; technological relatedness; product sophistication; firm upgrading; institutional context
AB Using a firm-product-level data set on China's exports during the period 2000-11, we compare the impacts of intra- and inter-firm knowledge spillovers on the emergence of new, more sophisticated products at the firm level. Empirical results indicate that firm diversification is dependent on both intra- and inter-firm knowledge spillovers, though the effect of the former is much greater. More importantly, intra-firm knowledge spillovers are one key source of firm upgrading. In contrast, inter-firm knowledge spillovers even have some negative impacts on firm upgrading in the Chinese context, though it contributes to firm diversification. We further analyze how the roles of intra- and inter-firm knowledge spillovers in firm upgrading are contingent on regional institutional context.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI The creation of cleantech startups at the local level: the role of knowledge availability and environmental awareness
DE Cleantech startups; Local knowledge; Environmental awareness; Firm creation
AB In this paper, we explore which local factors affect the creation of cleantech startups in a geographical area. Specifically, we note that these startups combine innovation and attention to the environment. Thus, we consider two primary sets of local factors: the availability of scientific and technological knowledge and the environmental awareness of local governments and communities as the main drivers of the creation of cleantech startups. Using a dataset of 393 cleantech startups created between 2012 and 2014 and extracted from the Italian official database of innovative startups, we estimate negative binomial regressions whose dependent variable is the number of cleantech startups created in each of the 110 Italian provinces. The results highlight that both the local availability of scientific and technological knowledge and the local environmental awareness are crucial determinants of cleantech entrepreneurship in a geographical area. We discuss the implications of these results for policymakers who intend to stimulate this type of entrepreneurship.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Clustering effects on firm exporting with productivity-enhancing R&D in China
DE China; exporting; productivity; R&D; regional clusters
AB This paper examines the effects of regional clustering on the linkages among R&D, exporting and productivity of Chinese firms. A structural framework is employed using a set of recursive equations that is capable of correcting for most estimation issues related to selection and endogeneity. The main findings reveal that regional clustering brings about relatively trivial direct benefits to exporters after taking into account important sources of firm heterogeneity. Rather, the main benefits of clustering on exporting appear to arise indirectly through investments in innovation and productivity. The main implication of the findings suggests that a better endowed geographical area improves international competitiveness mainly by enhancing the super-additive effects of investments in technology on productivity, which, in turn, enhances exporting performance.
WC Business, Finance; Economics; International Relations

TI Enhancing innovative capabilities in lagging regions: an extra-regional collaborative approach to RIS3
DE extra-regional collaborations; lagging regions; Smart Specialisation; RIS3; patents; Europe
AB Smart Specialisation (S3) is a place-based industrial strategy that forms the major component of the European Union's 2020 Innovation policy (RIS3). Lagging regions, however, lack the technological capabilities and networks to fully participate and benefit from RIS3. Extra-regional collaboration offers lagging regions opportunities for technological upgrading to overcome this deficit. Using patent data for EU NUTS2 regions, we find extra-regional collaboration raises innovation in lagging regions, although collaborations based on technological relatedness might be less effective, compared with advanced regions. This has implications for the design of policies to engender extra-regional collaboration and their alignment with RIS3 initiatives.
WC Development Studies; Economics; Geography

TI Clusters, economic performance, and social cohesion: a system dynamics approach
DE clusters; economic growth; economic development; social cohesion; system dynamics
AB Cluster policies pervade all regions of the world to promote employment growth, innovation and entrepreneurship. Yet, research mostly focuses on cluster economic performance, but less on regional social cohesion, which is important when economic growth coexists with deprivation, poverty and inequality. The paper?s aim is to understand both the economic and the social dynamics of clusters by developing a theoretical model based on system dynamics. It shows that clusters with positive economic performance do not necessarily lead to regional social cohesion. Multiple positive economic-related feedback processes can be mitigated by negative social-related feedback processes. Implications for academics and policy-makers are proposed.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Multinational corporations and higher education Some hidden dynamics
DE Renewable energy; Trade; Geography; Policy adoption; Technology diffusion; Panel fixed effects
AB In an era where achieving both economic growth and environmental sustainability is paramount, the role of technology diffusion remains an important one. Recent literature explores the link between geographical proximity and the adoption and diffusion of climate change adaptation policies. However, it has generally focused on a restricted set of developed countries and focused on the diffusion of policy instrument rather than the outcome of the policies. In this paper, we argue that domestic intensity of adoption of renewable energy technologies is likely to be affected by the adoption pattern in neighbouring countries. Additionally, this effect is likely to be stronger when important trade partners are intensive adopters of renewable energies. To test these hypotheses, we construct an index that captures a distance-weighted measure of intensity of renewable energies in other countries and apply a fixed effects framework to a panel of up to 116 countries over the (1980-2012) period. Our results confirm the existence of a geographic spill-over effect on the intensity of adoption of renewable energy technologies. Moreover, this effect is stronger when intensive adopters of renewable energies are also important trading partners, highlighting the relevance of trade channel as a potential catalyst of the diffusion of renewable energies across countries.
WC Economics; International Relations; Political Science

TI Science Parks and Business Incubation in the United Kingdom: Evidence from University Spin-Offs and Staff Start-Ups
DE Renewable energy; Trade; Geography; Policy adoption; Technology diffusion; Panel fixed effects
AB In an era where achieving both economic growth and environmental sustainability is paramount, the role of technology diffusion remains an important one. Recent literature explores the link between geographical proximity and the adoption and diffusion of climate change adaptation policies. However, it has generally focused on a restricted set of developed countries and focused on the diffusion of policy instrument rather than the outcome of the policies. In this paper, we argue that domestic intensity of adoption of renewable energy technologies is likely to be affected by the adoption pattern in neighbouring countries. Additionally, this effect is likely to be stronger when important trade partners are intensive adopters of renewable energies. To test these hypotheses, we construct an index that captures a distance-weighted measure of intensity of renewable energies in other countries and apply a fixed effects framework to a panel of up to 116 countries over the (1980-2012) period. Our results confirm the existence of a geographic spill-over effect on the intensity of adoption of renewable energy technologies. Moreover, this effect is stronger when intensive adopters of renewable energies are also important trading partners, highlighting the relevance of trade channel as a potential catalyst of the diffusion of renewable energies across countries.
WC Development Studies; Economics; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Technical efficiency and spatial spillovers: Evidence from grain marketing cooperatives in the US Midwest
DE boutstrap approach; data envelopment analysis; farmer cooperatives; spatial spillovers; technical efficiency
AB To date, no study has investigated the role of spatial spillovers in the technical efficiency of farmer cooperatives. This study addresses this issue by employing a two-stage approach, first measuring cooperatives' technical efficiency using a Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) model and secondly using a bootstrap truncated regression to identify the effect of spatial spillovers and cooperative firm-level characteristics on technical efficiency. The empirical application focuses on grain marketing cooperatives in the Midwest region of the United States, and shows that spatial spillover effects influence the technical efficiency of neighboring cooperatives. Technical efficiency is also found to be influenced by several cooperative firm-level characteristics including age, liquidity, differentiation, and membership size. [EconLit citations C21, Q13, R3].
WC Agricultural Economics & Policy; Economics; Food Science & Technology

TI Does foreign direct investment expand the capability set in the host economy? A sectoral analysis
DE capabilities; economic complexity index; foreign direct investment; sectoral analysis
AB Most empirical studies examining the impact of foreign direct investment (FDI) on economic development use aggregate monetary-based measures such as GDP or TFP growth as indicators for development. We deviate from this approach and use instead the recently developed economic complexity index; this measure summarises the complexity of the productive structure of an economy, and its values can be interpreted as the number of capabilities present in a country. These capabilities are units of productive knowledge necessary for the production of goods, and goods differ in the number of necessary capabilities. Furthermore, we use sectoral FDI data to take differences between sectors of an economy into account, since the number of necessary capabilities also varies between the sectors. In our empirical analysis, covering 63 developing and developed countries over the period 2005-14, we find that FDI in the tertiary sector has a statistically significant and robust positive effect on the number of capabilities, whereas FDI in the primary and secondary sectors generally does not increase the capability set of an economy.
WC Business, Finance; Economics; International Relations

TI Investments, incentives, and innovation: geographical clustering dynamics as drivers of sustainable entrepreneurship
DE Cluster; Entrepreneurial ecosystems; Agglomeration; Clean technology; Knowledge spillover; Sustainable entrepreneurship
AB This study attempts to fill the literature gap regarding sustainable entrepreneurship viewed through geographical clustering lenses by examining how institutional factors such as local entrepreneurship and innovation climates, knowledge networks, policies, resource availability, and awareness affect entrepreneurial firm formation in the USA. Drawing from various theoretical views within the interdisciplinary literature on the topic, we develop cross-cluster hypotheses regarding firm formation and geographic clustering of clean-technology companies. We test them using a negative binomial random effects model in a panel sample of US clean-technology startup firms and find general support.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI The role of environmental innovation through the technological proximity in the implementation of the sustainable development
DE environmental innovations; environmental policy; knowledge spillovers; sustainability performance; sustainable development
AB This paper explores the relationship between a firm's knowledge sourcing strategy and green innovation. The data are taken from Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development REGPAT database, February 2016, relative to the European Patent Office firms' patent applications published up to December 2015. The study contributes to the literature by focusing on the moderating role of integration between different activities related to environmental performance on the relationship between knowledge sources and green innovations. The results from 240 firms indicate a shift in the focus from internal knowledge to external knowledge when developing environmental innovations. Government policies promoting more knowledge complementarity and coordination between environmental fields will help to promote more knowledge transfer, allowing more sustainable development.
WC Business; Environmental Studies; Management

TI Agglomeration effects and spatial spillovers in efficiency analysis: a distribution-free methodology
DE efficiency; panel data; spatial autoregression; stochastic frontier
AB Technical efficiency estimates using standard stochastic frontier models do not include spillover effects, although the existence of such spillovers is well documented in the productivity literature. This paper proposes a regression-based, distribution-free estimation method applicable to both time-varying efficiency spatial stochastic frontier and fixed effects spatial autoregressive models, which is relatively easy to estimate. The empirical results from the Indian chemical industry illustrate that ignoring spatial dependence may seriously distort estimates for efficiency rankings. The average overall spillover effect on a firm's efficiency is 7.20 percentage points, or an average positive spillover effect of US$4.9 million in sales revenue.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Does host market regulation induce cross-border environmental innovation?
DE environmental policy; MNE; patent data
AB This paper evaluates the effect of host-country environmental policy stringency on the offshoring of green patents for 2000 top world R&D performers. It is shown that a more stringent environmental regulation triggers patent offshoring in the field of green technologies. Results are robust to various different specifications, to alternative definitions of innovation offshoring and of regulatory restrictions, to controls for firm and country-level characteristics and to the consideration of possible endogeneity of regulation. We interpret these findings as evidence that MNEs can take advantage from their exposure to multiple institutional settings, reducing the costs of, and increasing the payoff from, green innovation offshoring. It is also suggested that R&D subsidies and non-market-based regulatory measures are more important than market-based instruments as drivers of cross-border environmental innovation.
WC Business, Finance; Economics; International Relations

TI How to survive and compete: the impact of information asymmetry on productivity
DE Productivity; Information asymmetry; Foreign direct investment; Spillover
AB This paper studies the impact of information asymmetry on productivity through the foreign direct investment (FDI) channel. Higher information asymmetry (lower transparency) could increase the information cost for investors to distinguish between good and bad investments and thus impede investment, particularly, FDI in which investors are "information disadvantageous of alien". FDI is an important determinant of productivity growth. Naturally, we connect the two key economic variables and study the influence of information asymmetry on productivity through the channel of FDI. We use data from China's publicly listed manufacturing firms. Based on a market micro-structure model, we estimate the unobserved information asymmetry using the probability of informed trading (PIN). We estimate the unobserved firm-level productivity using the proxy variable method, assuming that the evolution of productivity is not exogenous but can be shifted by FDI. We find that information asymmetry affects the productivity of domestic firms both positively and negatively, depending on firms' technology-intensity. When domestic firms are technology-intensive, they can benefit from the knowledge spillovers of FDI. In that case, we find lower information asymmetry, associated with more FDI, results in higher productivity. When domestic firms are non-technology-intensive, they can be hurt by the foreign competition. In this case, we find that lower information asymmetry results in lower productivity.
WC Business; Economics; Social Sciences, Mathematical Methods

TI Heterogeneity as a Key for Understanding Science and Technology Park Effects
DE multibusiness; heterogeneity; innovation; imitation; growth; headquarters
AB A fundamental question in corporate strategy is how headquarters in multibusiness firms can create value above and beyond the burden of its own overhead. The leading theories from Chandler and Williamson hold that this is possible through resource allocation across businesses. Yet, there are multibusiness firms for whom reallocation opportunities are limited-e.g., chains. Accordingly, we propose, model, and test an alternative theory, one in which headquarters facilitates market-like dynamics between businesses that fuel innovation and growth. Whereas Chandler's and Williamson's theories involve the visible hand of managers, ours involves an invisible hand of managers. We construct an interacting agent model of the theory, which yields three propositions relating multibusiness structure to firm growth. We test those propositions in the banking industry and obtain results consistent with the model's predictions. In particular, knowledge growth increases in the number of units and heterogeneity in their knowledge, and increases then decreases in their geographic distance. Interestingly, once we account for these structural elements, scale and hierarchy both suppress innovation. Thus, neither Williamson's nor Chandler's theories hold in our setting (consistent with the argument motivating the need for an additional theory).
WC Development Studies; Economics; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Does environmental regulation policy help improve green production performance? Evidence from China's industry
DE continuous difference in difference (DID); environmental regulation; GPP; industrial sectors; market access
AB Environmental regulation (ER) policy is an effective means to improve green production performance (GPP), but how ER policy will affect China's GPP remains to be studied. Therefore, with the panel data of 38 industrial sectors in China during 2004-2015, we employ the continuous difference in difference method and system generalised method of moment method to estimate the impact of ER policy on GPP in the heavily polluting sectors of China. The empirical results show that first, the implementation of ER policy does not significantly improve GPP of heavily polluting sectors during the sample period. Among them, the external technological progress and export learning effect are important factors that hinder their GPP. Second, ER has no lag effect on GPP of 38 industrial sectors, and the increase in research and development investment does not significantly improve GPP. Finally, foreign direct investment has promoted GPP in China's industrial sectors to some extent.
WC Business; Environmental Studies; Management

TI The governance of universities and the establishment of academic spin-offs
DE Academic entrepreneurship; Spin-offs; University; Technology transfer; Governance; Higher education
AB While the metaphor of entrepreneurial ecosystem has become popular in academia, industry and government, one aspect is almost neglected, the role of universities. In particular, there is a paucity of studies that examine the governance of universities in relation to their engagement within the ecosystem. This paper relates for the first time the governance structure of universities to their capacity to foster the establishment of academic spin-offs. Thanks to a regulatory change imposing to Italian State universities the enrollment of lay members (i.e., external directors) in their board of directors, we can observe their appointment as an exogenous shock. We find that, while half of the universities appoint the minimum required number of lay members, others appoint more, up to creating board of directors where only the rector is not external. Moreover, there is a strong variety in the type of experiential capital that these lay members bring to universities. While some are entrepreneurs or managers of private firms, others are local stakeholders, such as lawyers or members of foundations or chambers of commerce. Such variance is reflected in the stimulus they exert on the creation of spin-offs. Using a regression discontinuity design on a sample of 1234 spin-offs from 66 universities, our longitudinal study of 1122 university-year observations shows that the rate of establishment of technology spin-offs increases more when more entrepreneurs are appointed. Local stakeholders in the university's board of directors, by contrast, are associated with increased establishments of service-oriented spin-offs.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Industry relatedness, FDI liberalization and the indigenous innovation process in China
DE relatedness; foreign direct investment (FDI) liberalization; innovation; productivity; China
AB This paper employs a structural innovation model to study the process of indigenous innovation in China and the role of industry relatedness. To better take into account China's transitioning economy context, it further tests to what extent the relationship between relatedness and firms' innovation process is influenced by the relaxation of foreign ownership controls, an arguably exogenous shock. Controlling for selection, simultaneity and unobserved heterogeneity, the results show that firm research and development (R&D) boosts innovation output, which in turn enhances firm productivity. Relatedness economies are positively related to each phase of innovation, although the size of the effects depends on the type of firm and the stage of innovation. Foreign direct investment (FDI) liberalization encourages firms to rely more on relatedness economies: (1) to complement R&D spending that is required to adapt foreign technologies to local applications; (2) to recombine knowledge from related industries in order to bring forth new proprietary ideas, processes or concepts; and (3) to help solve process or organizational problems faced in related industries.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI University Spillovers, Spatial Distance, and Firm Innovation: Evidence at Chinese Listed Firms
DE firm innovation; spatial distance; university spillovers
AB This paper matches information from Chinese listed firms with cities to analyze university spillovers on firm innovation, and the distance between firms and universities is calculated using ArcGIS software. We find that firms' patents are positively related to the number of universities in the same city, which indicates positive university spillovers on firm innovation; university spillovers attenuate with spatial distance between firms and universities; firms with larger annual sales and higher R&D investment have more university spillovers on innovations; and the results of positive spillovers and attenuation effects generally hold when we divide sample by industry or divide the total number of patents by invention, utility model, and design.
WC Business; Economics; International Relations

TI The association between medical care utilization and health outcomes: A spatial analysis
DE Medical care; Utilization; Health outcomes; Spatial analysis
AB As health care spending continues to strain government and household budgets, there is increasing interest in measuring whether the incremental dollar spent on health care is worth it. In studying this question, researchers often make two key assumptions: that health care intensity can be summarized by a single index such as average spending, and that samples of hospitals or regions are spatially independent: Manhattan and the Bronx are no more alike than are Manhattan and San Diego, for example. In this paper we relax both assumptions. Using detailed data on 897,008 elderly Medicare enrolees with acute myocardial infarction (or a heart attack) during 2007-11, we find first that the total level of health care spending has little impact on health outcomes; more important is how the money is spent. Same-day stenting, a treatment with proven effectiveness, positively predicts survival, while home health care spending does not. Second, there is strong evidence of spatial autocorrelation; without corrections this can lead to inefficient estimates and standard errors that are biased downward. Spatial autocorrelation in outcomes appears to be the consequence both of unmeasured health status and spatial correlation in new and effective technology.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Urban Studies

TI Spillover effects from web to mobile payment services The role of relevant schema and schematic fit
DE Perceived value; Spillover effect; Schema; Schematic fit; Web-mobile service extension
AB Purpose Drawing from the spillover effect literature, the purpose of this paper is to investigate the spillover effect in consumers' web-mobile payment extension behavior. The authors figure out two categories of factors associated with the spillover effect: relevant schema and schematic fit. Cognitive trust and emotional trust in web payment are used to capture relevant schema, while perceived similarity and perceived business tie are proposed to denote schematic fit in the web-mobile payment extension context. Design/methodology/approach An online survey (n =552) was conducted to empirically test the model. The data were analyzed by structural equation modeling approach. Findings The results show that relevant schema and schematic fit factors positively influence perceived value of mobile payment (MP), which facilitates consumers' behavioral intention of MP. Originality/value This study contributes to the extant literature by theoretically identifying the key factors of the spillover effect and empirically investigating its role during the web-mobile service extension process.
WC Business; Computer Science, Information Systems; Telecommunications

TI Absorptive capacity and innovation in China
DE China; Innovation; Knowledge spillovers; Absorptive capacity; Adaptation; Appropriability of innovation
AB Purpose The purpose of this paper is to question the conventional wisdom that China fails to produce distinctive innovation; its capabilities limited merely to copying and reverse engineering. The author postulates that the lack of innovation is a delayed activity since China is undergoing a process of building absorptive capacity (AC) as a precursor to innovation. Design/methodology/approach The author probes this question by drawing on the concept of AC, a competence separate from innovativeness and a precursor to it. By drawing on the AC literature three propositions are established. Subsequently, these propositions are examined, in part, with data drawn from 34 interviews conducted in China with CEOs, other senior corporate officers and government officials. In this way, the author explores the challenges to innovating. Findings Thomson Reuters 2015 Top Global Innovators report listed no Chinese company among its top 100 list of innovative companies. The author's belief, however, favors China to become a source of innovation. A positive tilt derived from both interviews and recent reports published by Bain & Company, Booz and Co as well as McKinsey & Co. This evidences, the author argues, China is acquiring AC, a competence independent of innovation but a necessary antecedent to decoding and deploying the intellectual property in its portfolio. The collective effect of this is that the perception of China as a source of innovative activity will show an uptick when the AC threshold is reached.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Toward a Framework to Advance the Knowledge on Science Park Contribution: An Analysis of Science Park Heterogeneity
DE China; Innovation; Knowledge spillovers; Absorptive capacity; Adaptation; Appropriability of innovation
AB This paper constructs a unique dataset of 1018 estimates from 41 studies on foreign direct investment horizontal productivity spillovers in China, and the prime objective is to investigate determinants of horizontal spillovers from foreign direct investment using Bayesian Model Averaging based meta-analysis. Our results suggest that horizontal spillovers vary across firm attributes, including the ownership structure of foreign firms, the origin of foreign firms, market orientation of foreign firms, the ownership structure of local firms and the technological levels of local firms. For instance, our results show the nonlinear relationship between technological levels of local firms and FDI horizontal spillovers.
WC Development Studies; Economics; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Differential performance of science park firms: an integrative model
DE Science parks; Competitive environment; Location economics; Spillover effect; Small firm performance and growth
AB This study integrates perspectives from the literature on science parks, environment dynamism, and on the resources-based view of the firm, to develop an integrative model of the park location value to resident firms. Consistent with our theorizing, the externalities generated by the science park, the firm's idiosyncratic endowment in a wide range of resources, and its heterogeneous competitive environment jointly influence the differential performance of science park firms. The results suggest that firms residing in science parks with more co-located complementary firms demonstrate better sales and sales growth performance. A firm's certain internal and external resource endowment and the munificent environments within which a firm operates serve as enabling conditions for better sales and sales growth performance.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Heterogeneous impacts of China's economic and development zone program
DE China; economic development; place-based policies; productivity spillovers
AB This paper examines the impact of economic and development zones (EDZs) on the productivity of incumbent firms in China. To deal with the selection issue, I first take into account potentially different selection mechanisms across two popular types of EDZs-economic and technological development zones (ETDZs) and high-tech development zones (HTDZs)-by relying on multiple treatment propensity scores matching techniques. Next, I apply the difference-in-differences estimator to the matched sample and conduct an event study analysis. The results show that the respective effects of ETDZs and HTDZs on firm productivity are positive, but subject to a nonlinear trend over time. The size of the productivity gains depends critically on the type of EDZ, however. A new HTDZ (ETDZ) leads to an average productivity gain of up to 30.2% (18.4%) for incumbent firms in the 5 years after the zone was created. These findings suggest that the size of productivity spillovers for spatially targeted firms differ quite significantly depending on the strategic development and policy goals of the EDZ: HTDZs that focus on promoting indigenous-based factors of learning lead to higher productivity spillovers compared with ETDZs that focus on promoting extra-local linkages.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Who is in and who is out? Integration of technological knowledge in the multinational corporation
DE emerging markets; incumbent performance; liberalization; marketing-mix responses; quasi-experiment
AB This article concerns the integration of technological knowledge within multinational corporations (MNCs). We empirically investigate the degree of technological knowledge integration of competence-creating subsidiaries with headquarters and sister subsidiaries and explore the effects of intersubsidiary differentiation. Data on the complete US patenting activity of 22 Swedish multinationals from 1893 to 2008 reveal significant differences in degrees of technological knowledge integration. As expected, the results show that greenfield subsidiaries are more integrated with headquarters and other greenfield subsidiaries than with acquired subsidiaries. In contrast, acquired subsidiaries do not appear to be as easily integrated into the MNC, and for this group the empirical evidence shows very little integration of technological knowledge. The findings provide extended insights into the role of competence-creating subsidiaries as providers of technological knowledge to headquarters and other MNC subsidiaries, and suggest a distinct pattern of subsidiary knowledge integration, ordered by what appears to be in-groups and out-groups, that has been overlooked in the prior MNC literature.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Economic analysis of spillover effects of an integrated pest management (IPM) strategy for suppression of mango fruit fly in Kenya
DE Fruit fly; Integrated pest management; Cross-commodity spillover effect; Kenya; Africa
AB The International Centre of Insect Physiology and Ecology (icipe) recently developed and disseminated an integrated pest management (IPM) strategy to suppress the invasive oriental fruit fly species Bactrocera dorsalis in mango-growing communities in Africa. While the economic benefits of the strategy in mango production have been established, the cross-commodity benefits have not been assessed, despite evidence of the target fruit fly species' effect on a wide range of cultivated host crops. Using propensity score matching, we analysed data on 371 households obtained from a survey of an icipe project in Kenya and sought to determine whether applying an IPM strategy for fruit fly had a spillover effect on gross margins. We focused on four alternative cultivated hosts of B. dorsalis, namely avocado, pawpaw, citrus and banana. We found positive and significant cross-commodity spillover effects in respect of employing the IPM strategy for fruit fly targeting pawpaw and citrus, suggesting a wide scope for IPM investment in Kenya and other fruit-producing regions in sub-Saharan Africa.
WC Agricultural Economics & Policy; Economics; Food Science & Technology; Nutrition & Dietetics

TI Academic Inventors and the Antecedents of Green Technologies. A Regional Analysis of Italian Patent Data
DE Green technologies; Patents; Recombinant knowledge; Academic inventors
AB This work investigates the knowledge generation mechanisms underlying the creation of green technologies (GTs) in Italian NUTS 3 regions. We hypothesise that local knowledge spillovers from non-green technological areas positively influence the generation of inventions in green domains, since the latter occur as the outcome of a recombination process among a wide array of technological domains. In addition, we hypothesise that the involvement of academic inventors in patenting activity bears positive effects on the generation of GTs, because inventors are able to manage the recombination process across different, and not necessarily related, technological domains. We also investigate whether academic inventors mitigate the impact of local spillovers from non-green knowledge on the generation of GTs. The results suggest that local spillovers from non-green technological domains as well as the involvement of academic inventors in patenting activity bear positive direct effects on the generation of GTs. We also find that academic inventors compensate for local scarcity of spillovers from non-green technological areas.
WC Ecology; Economics; Environmental Sciences; Environmental Studies

TI Institutions, Firm Characteristics, and FDI Spillovers
DE China; FDI spillovers; firm characteristics; institutions; subnational
AB This article investigates the effects of institutions on FDI spillovers considering firm heterogeneity and various spillover mechanisms. We test our hypotheses using data on Chinese manufacturing firms from 1998 to 2013. We find that intellectual property rights protection lowers the positive demonstration effect of FDI on local productivity, while such negative effect is smaller for local firms with higher technological competence. Government interference reduces the negative competition effect of FDI on the productivity of local firms and this effect is even stronger for state-owned firms. For firms with high relationship-specificity, vertical spillovers through the backward and forward linkages are larger in regions with better rule of law.
WC Business; Economics; International Relations

TI R&D Efforts, Total Factor Productivity, and the Energy Intensity in China
DE China; energy intensity; R&D investment; TFP
AB This paper first measures the levels and growths of regional TFP in China using a panel dataset of China's 30 provinces from 1978-2014. It then estimates the effects of R&D on regional TFP and its growth further explores the impact of TFP on China's energy intensity. We find no evidence that R&D has innovation and spillover effects on TFP and its growth in China's provinces. Nevertheless, R&D can promote growth in regional TFP by helping to absorb new technologies embodied in FDI and foreign trade. The results indicate that TFP plays a significant role in the decline of China's energy intensity.
WC Business; Economics; International Relations

TI Origins and pathways of innovation in the third industrial revolution
DE SUTVA; spillovers; policy evaluation; Diff-in-Diff; regional policies
AB This study examines the factors that shaped the long-term evolution of the information and communication technology (ICT) industry in Sweden, 1950-2013. Using a new historical microdatabase on actual innovation output, the driving forces and technological interdependencies in the third industrial revolution are chronicled. The results of this study support some stylized facts about technological Interdependencies in general-purpose technologies: a closely knitted set of industries has provided positive and negative driving forces for the development of ICT innovations. The historical evolution of GPTs can in this perspective be described as a sequence of development blocks.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Business owners, employees, and firm performance
DE Entrepreneurship; Ownership; Firm performance; Human capital; Diffusion of knowledge
AB The novel Finnish Longitudinal OWNer-Employer-Employee (FLOWN) database was used to analyze how the characteristics of owners and employees relate to firm performance as determined by labor productivity, survival, and employment growth. Focusing on the role of the employment history, the results show that previous experience in a high-productivity firm strongly predicts high productivity and probability of survival for the entrepreneur's new firm. This can be interpreted as evidence of knowledge spillovers through labor mobility of both the owners and the employees. The results also show that the owner's high education in a technical field is positively related to firm performance. Different findings for owner-entrepreneurs and pure owners suggest that the definition of entrepreneurship matters.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Club convergence in innovation activity across European regions
DE Club convergence; European regions; innovation activity; log t test
AB The goal of this paper is to analyse the innovation activity convergence process across European regions from 2002 to 2012. A novel methodology that allows either detection of overall convergence or endogenous identification of groups of regions was applied. The results support the club convergence hypothesis for explaining the convergence process of Europe's regions during the period analysed and seven innovation convergence clubs were identified. In addition, the research results indicate that initial regional R&D expenditure is the most relevant factor driving the formation of the convergence clubs after controlling for the effects of regional structural characteristics.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Exploring the spatial dimensions of nanotechnology development in China: the effects of funding and spillovers
DE nanotechnology; geographical proximity; collaboration; knowledge spillovers; agglomeration; Chinese regions; publications and patents
AB This paper investigates the factors driving nanotechnology development in Chinese regions. Advanced regions of China have spearheaded the country's rapid growth in nanotechnology, aided by substantial support from the government. While this head start could potentially perpetuate regional inequalities through agglomeration economies, the results suggest that knowledge spillovers exert a substantially greater impact in peripheral regions compared with the advanced ones, and may thus be compensating for the limited institutional support they receive and their weak technological capabilities. This research contributes to the regional innovation literature by highlighting that a formal scientific network can counteract the forces of agglomeration economies and spur innovation in peripheral regions.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Born to be green: new insights into the economics and management of green entrepreneurship
DE Green entrepreneurship; Environmental sector; Green economy; Green start-ups
AB While the number of green start-ups has steadily increased around the world in response to the environmental problems demanding immediate solutions, there are several unresolved questions on the behaviour and performance of such ventures. The papers in this special issue shed light on these issues by underscoring the role of several factors, such as industry life cycles, knowledge spillovers, institutions, and availability of external finance, in shaping decision-making and firm behaviour in green start-ups. This paper highlights the state-of-the-art developments in the literature, discusses the key contributions of the papers put together in this special issue, and presents a future research agenda for scholars interested in green entrepreneurship.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Hidden champions and unicorns: a question of the context of human capital investment
DE Main street entrepreneurship; Hidden champions; Human capital
AB The Silicon Valley model of high-tech entrepreneurship has been placed in the spotlight by academics in the past at the expense of the plenitude of Main Street businesses businesses beyond the high-tech and ICT sector and the highly scalable platform economy. This study aims at resolving this one-sidedness contributing to unexplained aspects of entrepreneurship theory. Our focus lies on a subgroup of Main Street companies, known as hidden champions, as the counterpart of Silicon Valley high-growth firms, the unicorns. In spite of a worldwide distribution, just as unicorns are highly skewed to a few countries and regions, so are hidden champions. On a snapshot, it appears that unicorns and hidden champions are substitutes rather than complementary to one another. We illustrate that the emergence and skewed distribution of these two types of firms can be explained by the institutional context, in particular the provision of human capital. In an explorative approach, our line of reasoning puts forward that the centralization (public provision) vs. decentralization (individual investment) in organizing the accumulation of human capital helps to explain the different and path-dependent evolution of both, the Silicon Valley and the Main Street models of entrepreneurship.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Agglomeration, absorptive capacity and knowledge governance: implications for public-private firm innovation in China
DE innovation; ownership structure; spillovers; absorptive capacity; China
AB This paper considers the role of firm ownership structure, absorptive capacity and agglomeration on firm innovation in the Chinese context. A popular co-occurrence measure is used to measure local spillovers expected to take place between similar but different industries co-located together. Relying on a large panel of Chinese firms, this paper offers three main results: (1) privately owned enterprises (POEs) are more efficient innovators than their state-owned enterprise (SOE) counterparts; (2) local spillovers from related industries enhance firm innovation, especially for firms with higher pre-existing learning abilities; and (3) despite possessing relatively high levels of absorptive capacity, POEs maintain higher innovation performance compared with their SOE counterparts. These findings help confirm the absorptive capacity thesis, but also suggest that possessing relatively higher levels of absorptive capacity, in and of itself, is not always a sufficient precondition for firms to overcome all the cognitive and technological barriers to leveraging external sources of knowledge. In line with theories of knowledge governance, one explanation for this finding is that private (government) operators develop higher (lower) quality governance procedures that ultimately enhance (hamper) their ability to integrate successfully external sources of knowledge, even after developing a high level of absorptive capabilities.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Returnee entrepreneurs and the institutional environment: case study insights from China
DE China; Entrepreneurship; Emerging economies; Returnee entrepreneurs
AB Purpose The purpose of this paper is to investigate the phenomenon of returnee entrepreneurs, their venturing efforts and the impact of the institutional environment they operate in, and thereby to propose a conceptual model depicting how returnee entrepreneurs create and operate new ventures and interact with the institutional environment. Design/methodology/approach This study followed a multiple case study approach based on data collected from in-depth inquiries into 11 returnee entrepreneurs and their ventures in China which was analysed inductively. Findings Analysis of case study data resulted in a conceptual model of returnee entrepreneurs illustrating micro-level characteristics of the phenomenon and the interplay with the institutional environment of an emerging economy. Insights from the case study are discussed in terms of implications for entrepreneurial motivations, human and social capital, estrangement from the home country, internationalisation behaviour and objectives of returnee-owned ventures. Originality/value Previous research on the phenomenon of returnee entrepreneurs is highly fragmented and has largely focussed on specific and isolated outcomes. This study offers a holistic inquiry contributing to a better understanding of the phenomenon as a whole and presenting key properties of the phenomenon.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI International joint ventures and technology diffusion: Evidence from China
DE China; FDI; international joint ventures; technology diffusion
AB This paper investigates international technology diffusion through FDI by explicitly considering the ownership structure of FDI projects with detailed Chinese data. We find that international joint ventures (JVs) generate significantly positive technology diffusion effects, while wholly foreign-owned firms (WFOs) generate significantly negative competition effects. The differentiated impacts of JVs and WFOs are robust, heterogeneous and causal as shown by our instrumental variable estimation. As for the mechanisms, evidence suggests that JVs bring better technology to the host country, invest more in R&D and employee training, and also provide easier technology access to local firms than WFOs.
WC Business, Finance; Economics; International Relations

TI The centrality of regions in corporate knowledge flows and the implications for Smart Specialisation Strategies
DE knowledge flows; network centrality; regions; Smart Specialisation; patent citations
AB This study examines the structural and geographical patterns of knowledge flows in order to investigate the centrality of regions. It exploits patent citations and combines social networks analysis and graphs theory to assess the importance of regions as places for knowledge sourcing and creation from the perspective of firms. It offers a novel applied approach to help regions position themselves in a technological space and integrate micro-economic insights into the design of strategies for Smart Specialisation. The analysis includes more than 400 worldwide regions and the patent applications of 1000 research and development-leading firms at the European Patent Office.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Manufacturing Clusters and Firm Innovation
DE manufacturing industries; innovation; clusters; spatial scale; Maryland
AB This study examines how much different manufacturing clusters encourage per-establishment innovation measured by citation-weighted patent applications, and at which geographical scales they boost patent filings by the greatest magnitude. Using establishment and patent application data for the state of Maryland, 2004-2013, this study finds that the Metalworking Technology cluster, formed at 3 miles in radius, encourages innovation the most: The number of citation-weighted patent applications for firms in the cluster is 17.6% higher than that outside of the cluster. Food Processing and Manufacturing and Automotive clusters follow, at 1 and 2 mile(s) in radius, with an effect of 8.5% and 5.5%, respectively. A complete ranking of 20 manufacturing clusters is delivered. A description of how policy makers may use this ranking to target specific manufacturing clusters for economic development is included.
WC Development Studies; Economics; Urban Studies

TI Interregional patient mobility in a decentralized healthcare system
DE interregional patient mobility; hospital admissions; decentralized health systems; spatial spillovers; non-linear panel-data methods; Italy
AB Interregional patient mobility in a decentralized healthcare system. Regional Studies. Interregional patient mobility, measured as origin-destination patient flows between any two regions, is analysed within a dynamic spatial panel data framework using 2001-10 data on Italian hospital discharges. The aim is to assess the effects of the main determinants of patient flows, distinguishing between the impacts of regional health policies and those exerted by exogenous factors (geography, size, neighbouring regions, national policies). Empirical results indicate that the main drivers of mobility are regional income, hospital capacity, organizational structure, performance and technology. Moreover, neighbouring regions' supply factors, specialization and performance largely affect mobility by generating significant local externalities.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Globalizing manufacturing but not invention: automotive transplants in the United States
DE invention; production; automotive; transplants; location
AB Production by foreign-owned automotive firms in the United States provides an opportunity to investigate the co-location of technological advance and manufacturing. While some scholars report that certain foreign firms are transplanting both of these activities to the United States, others are more circumspect. We first identify automotive patents across American metropolitan areas to develop a new taxonomy of automotive invention. Patent ownership is then traced, showing a clear gap between foreign-owned firms' production in the United States and formation of invention capital. The findings support a hypothesis that globalization of manufacturing noticeably outpaces the spread of invention assets.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Location, localisation, agglomeration: an examination of the geographical dimension of FDI spillovers
DE FDI; spillovers; demonstration; labour mobility; competition; sub-Saharan Africa
AB The empirical literature on the spillovers of foreign direct investment (FDI) has so far not analysed the well-established theoretical transmission channels through which FDI impacts on domestic firms. This paper shows how channels of transmission matter for productivity spillovers from FDI by providing more fuller and nuanced picture of the effects. We analyse a panel of eight sub-Saharan Africa countries spanning the period 2006-2014 and demonstrate the empirical relevance of distinguishing three channels-demonstration, labour mobility, and competition. We provide measures of these effects and also show that the size, significance, and sign of spillover effects depend on the local absorptive capacity, technology levels, geographical proximity, and foreign ownership structure. Overall, results suggest that demonstration spillovers are large and economically significant, whereas the patterns of labour mobility and competition spillovers are not stable across the various specifications and measures. Finally, the analysis involves several measures of further investigations and robustness checks. Results are robust to the construction of spillover and outcome variables, the introduction of additional explanatory variables and an alternative estimation method.
WC Business; Economics; Geography

TI Endogenous growth of open collaborative innovation communities: a supply-side perspective
DE Environmental regulation; Environmental innovation; End of pipe abatement; Emission standard; Performance standard
AB This article analyzes the conditions under which open collaborative innovation communities can be generated and are able to grow and prosper in the long run. We build a formal model of the interaction between such communities and the alternative institutional setting based on intellectual property rights that we call Technology. The model accounts for both the communitarian social process taking place inside the community and for the presence of spillovers both across and within each institution. We prove that communities grow endogenously above a certain size threshold, and that such growth depends on supply-side mechanisms centered on the developers' social motivations and interactions. In a comparative statics analysis, we show that the community's innovative performance rests not only on its own characteristics (strength of social motivations and/or of protection of the community-produced knowledge) but also on factors outside its scope, namely, the institutional characteristics of Technology. We discuss the managerial and policy implications of our findings.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI International migration and innovation diffusion: an eclectic survey
DE international migration; innovation; diffusion
AB International migration and innovation diffusion: an eclectic survey. Regional Studies. In the new era of international mass migration, the role of highly skilled individuals in diffusing innovation has attracted considerable attention. Using economic history studies as a template, the paper organizes several strands of the literature around three main themes: the distinction between mobility and migration; the directions of flows; and their contents. Migration supports diffusion from origin to host countries, but also in the opposite direction, as well as within and across destinations. A research agenda is proposed with special focus on the importance of social ties among migrants and the distinction between access to general information and knowledge exchanges. Regional Studies. ,,,,,, RESUMELa migration internationale et la diffusion de l'innovation: une enquete eclectique. Regional Studies. la nouvelle epoque de la migration de masse internationale, le role des personnes hautement qualifiees dans le domaine de la diffusion de l'innovation a attire beaucoup d'attention. Employant des etudes de l'histoire economique comme modele, l'article cherche a organiser plusieurs volets de la documentation autour de trois themes principaux: a savoir, la difference entre mobilite et migration; l'orientation des flux; et leur contenu. La migration soutient la diffusion a partir des pays d'origine et a destination des pays d'accueil, mais aussi en sens inverse, ainsi qu'au sein des et a travers les destinations. On propose un programme de recherche pretant une attention particuliere a l'importance des liens sociaux parmi les migrants et a la difference entre acces a l'information generale et echanges de connaissances. ZUSAMMENFASSUNGInternationale Migration und Innovationsdiffusion: eine eklektische Erhebung. Regional Studies. Im neuen Zeitalter der internationalen Massenmigration hat die Rolle von hochqualifizierten Personen bei der Verbreitung von Innovation erhebliche Beachtung gefunden. Unter Nutzung von wirtschaftsgeschichtlichen Studien als Vorlage werden in diesem Beitrag verschiedene Gruppen von Untersuchungen nach drei Hauptthemen geordnet: der Unterscheidung zwischen Mobilitat und Migration, den Richtungen der Strome und ihrer Inhalte. Die Migration fordert eine Diffusion von Ursprungs- zu Aufnahmelandern, aber auch in die umgekehrte Richtung sowie innerhalb von und zwischen Zielorten. Der Beitrag enthalt einen Vorschlag fur ein Forschungsprogramm unter besonderer Berucksichtigung der Wichtigkeit von sozialen Bindungen zwischen Migranten sowie der Unterscheidung zwischen dem Zugriff auf allgemeine Informationen einerseits und Wissenstausch andererseits. RESUMENMigracion internacional y difusion de innovacion: un estudio eclectico. Regional Studies. En la nueva era de la migracion masiva internacional ha llamado mucho la atencion el papel de las personas altamente cualificadas en la difusion de innovacion. Mediante estudios sobre la historia de la economia como patron, en este articulo se organizan varios ambitos de la bibliografia segun tres temas principales: la distincion entre movilidad y migracion; las direcciones de flujos; y sus contenidos. La migracion fomenta la difusion desde los paises de origen a los de acogida, pero tambien en direccion contraria, asi como dentro de y entre los destinos. Se propone un programa de investigacion con especial atencion a la importancia de los vinculos sociales entre los inmigrantes y la distincion entre el acceso a informacion general y los intercambios de conocimiento.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Mediating Role of Entrepreneurship in Explaining the Association Between Income Inequality and Regional Economic Performance
DE income inequality; entrepreneurship; economic performance
AB This research aims to examine whether income inequality affects economic performance at the regional level, which is mediated by entrepreneurship. By considering hierarchical preferences in consumption, it assumes that income inequality has a negative influence on regional economic growth because it lowers the incentive to innovate. Using a structural equation model, the effect of income inequality on regional economic performance, as well as the mediating effect of entrepreneurship, is tested. The results show that income inequality negatively affects both entrepreneurship and economic growth. This result suggests that insufficient demand for new products/services hampers entrepreneurial activities as well as regional economic performance. The findings contribute to the field, highlighting that entrepreneurship mediates between income inequality and economic performance based on demands.
WC Development Studies; Economics; Urban Studies

TI Spillover health effects of energy efficiency investments: Quasi-experimental evidence from the Los Angeles LED streetlight program
DE Energy efficiency investments; Health externalities; LED streetlights; CO2 emissions; Los Angeles; Synthetic control method
AB Payback estimates of energy efficiency investments often ignore public health externalities. This is problematic in cases where spillover health effects are substantial, such as when the application of new technology alters environmental exposures. When health externalities are included in return on investment calculations, energy efficiency programs may look more or less attractive than suggested by conventional "energy savings only" estimates. This analysis exploits the quasi-experiment provided by the 2009 Los Angeles (LA) LED streetlight efficiency program to investigate the returns on investments inclusive of an originally estimated health externality. Using the synthetic control method, we find that the LED streetlight program is associated with a lagged increase in breast cancer mortality of 0.479 per 100,000. Inclusive of the effects of LEDs on breast cancer and avoided carbon emissions, the LA LED program provides a - 146.2% 10-year return compared to +118.2% when health outcomes and carbon emissions are ignored. (C) 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
WC Business; Economics; Environmental Studies

TI Interregional inventor collaboration and the commercial value of patented inventions: evidence from the US biotechnology industry
DE Regional innovation system; Technical efficiency; Knowledge production function
AB This paper analyzes the relative importance of the spatiality of inventor collaboration links for the quality of invention. It uses patent citation and renewal data to estimate (expected) economic values for a sample of US biotechnology patents, controlling for a set of inventor and owner characteristics. The investigation extends the research by differentiating the quality of knowledge flows while at the same time refining patents as a source of innovation information. The results of the clustered logistic regression and continuation ratio models provide some support for the hypothesis that interregional (non-local) collaboration results in commercially more valuable inventions relative to patents that are product of intraregional (local) collaboration. The same empirical results also indicate that (1) inter-industry (related) knowledge flows contribute to the patent value more than inter-industry (unrelated) or intra-industry knowledge flows and (2) general-purpose technologies/products as measured by citations of patented inventions received from diverse sets of industries are indicative not only of technological/scientific quality, but also of the economic value of patented inventions. These results are robust in different citation-window designations, exclusion of self-citations, different regional definitions and different patent classifications.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI The contributions of human capital, R&D spending and convergence to total factor productivity growth
DE total factor productivity (TFP); convergence; human capital; research and development (R&D); productivity gap and frontier
AB The study investigates the drivers of total factor productivity (TFP) growth, covering 99 European regions from 31 countries over the period 2000-13. It shows that human capital endowment had a positive effect upon TFP growth, particularly in advanced regions, but the effect from regions' own research and development (R&D) expenditures was largely absent. The effects of human capital and R&D on TFP growth varied with the productivity gap. Further, there was a threshold effect in convergence, where stronger TFP growth was associated with both a larger productivity gap and a higher initial level of productivity. Spatial spillover effects had a positive impact upon TFP growth.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI The spatial pattern of demand in the early market for electric vehicles: Evidence from the United Kingdom
DE Electric vehicle demand; Spatial diffusion; Socio-technical transitions; Spatial regression; Spatial spillovers
AB This paper reports a spatial analysis of Electric Vehicle registrations across the local authorities of the United Kingdom during the early phase of market development. Spatial autocorrelation tests are applied in order to identify any spatial organisation in registrations rates and spatial regression models are specified to consider the effect of socioeconomic, household, and transport system characteristics over registrations. Specific attention is paid to the association between Electric Vehicle registrations and the presence of charging infrastructure to consider if registrations are affected by infrastructure in the immediate and intermediate vicinity. The results of the analysis suggest Electric Vehicle demand exhibits a moderate degree of spatial clustering, which indicates the emergence of lead and laggard markets, and that the spatial variation in Electric Vehicle uptake can be partially explained through other characteristics of the local authorities. Characteristics relating to education level, employment status, income level, population density, dwelling type, household size, car availability, and the presence of Hybrid Electric Vehicles are significant factors in explaining the rate of Electric Vehicle registrations. Moreover, the level of charge point infrastructure installed within a local authority is positively associated with EV demand. From a policy perspective, the results reported in this paper indicate that local conditions are likely to be important in the rate of Electric Vehicle adoption, which may be of use when considering the development of geographically targeted interventions to accelerate Electric Vehicle demand.
WC Economics; Geography; Transportation

TI Knowledge networks for innovation in the forestry sector: Multinational companies in Uruguay
DE Innovation systems; Forestry firms; Multi-national companies; Social network analysis; Uruguay
AB In this paper, we analyse the role that inter-agency and inter-business linkages have in the process of technological innovations in the forestry sector in Uruguay. We focus on what types of interaction prevail in the process of creating new knowledge and diffusing existing ones and what role different types of organizations have during this process. This paper offers new insights into the role that innovation in multinational firms has on knowledge creation and diffusion in developing countries as they interact with and reinforce weak sectoral innovation systems. Our findings indicate that multinational companies follow three main strategies to cope with the limitations of the local innovation system: cooperate among them, establish links with international research centres and, have a network of suppliers of technology. The spillovers to local agents are greater in case of networks established with the purpose of generate new knowledge.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Forestry

TI New Roles for Supporting Organizations in Clusters: Enhancing Connectedness in Knowledge Networks
DE Clusters; SME's; Supporting organizations; Networks; Gatekeepers
AB In today's context of economic crisis, certain structures such as industrial clusters have been forced to change in order to remain competitive. For years, local supporting organizations have been focused on strengthening cluster networks, providing specialized services, and fostering innovation practices. Nowadays, thanks to their increasing connectivity, supporting organizations have become hybridizers and catalyzers of knowledge that spreads among local firms after an intense process of refinement. Acting as mediators between local firms and gatekeepers of extra-cluster knowledge, they smooth firms' access to fresh knowledge and nourish the innovativeness of the system. Using data collected in the Toy Valley cluster during 2014, this chapter looks at the mechanisms allowing supporting organizations to successfully diffuse knowledge and pays attention to these two in-between positions. In line with previous research, findings corroborate the particular relevance of facilitators of knowledge. However, important differences emerge when considering the profile of the local organization and the type of knowledge shared.
WC Business; Economics; Geography

TI The Story of Cluster as a Cross-Boundary Concept: From Local Development to Management Studies
DE Industrial cluster; Industrial district; Bibliometric analysis; Social network analysis; Keyword analysis
AB The chapter explores in an original manner the evolutionary trajectories of the cluster concept over time through the application of analytical tools coming from the realm of bibliometric analysis and social network analysis. In particular, we build on a previous work (Lazzeretti et al. J Econ Geogr 14(1), 21-43; 2014) to observe the evolution of the cluster literature alongside two main dimensions: (1) publication outlets and (2) paper keywords. Our analysis confirms the interdisciplinary character of the cluster concept, with the presence of publication outlets from different research fields. However, the contribution of management and innovation studies increases over time. The longitudinal analysis of the keywords confirms this trend and reveals that the cluster literature is evolving from economic and sociological-related issues to management-related topics, where innovation and firm performance are the leading issues.
WC Business; Economics; Geography

TI Spatial club dynamics in European regions
DE Exploratory data analysis; Polarization; Random vector field; Spatial dependence; Spatial distribution dynamics; Knowledge spillovers; Moran scatterplot
AB This paper studies the spatial agglomeration dynamics of a sample of 224 European regions in the period 1991-2012 by a dynamic extension of the Moran scatterplot, consisting in a nonparametric estimate of the joint dynamics of GDP per worker and its spatial lag. We find evidence that the twin-peaked distribution of GDP per worker in 2012 is the result of the existence of three spatial clubs: the first mainly populated by regions belonging to the former Eastern Bloc countries, the second by regions of the Southern Mediterranean countries (Portugal, Italy, and Spain) and the third by regions of other EU countries (notably Germany, France, UK and Northern European countries). Spatial externalities appears to be mainly driven by geographical, technological and social proximities, and only marginally by institutional proximities. Local spatial dependence is a pervasive phenomenon, and only the low-GDP per worker regions with similar neighbours seem to be immune. The 30 year ahead forecast of GDP per worker distribution suggests a weak convergence among the three clubs and a persistent spatial agglomeration in the future.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Urban Studies

TI A meta-analysis of the indirect impact of foreign direct investment in old and new EU member states: Understanding productivity spillovers
DE enlarged Europe; firm performance; foreign direct investment; meta-regression analysis
AB In this paper, we summarise, combine and explain recent findings from firm-level empirical literature focusing on the indirect impact of foreign direct investment (FDI) on economic performance, measured as productivity, in the Enlarged Europe. We have reviewed 52 quantitative studies, released between 2000 and 2015 and codified 1,133 estimates. We run a regression of regressions which measures the strength of the FDI-productivity relationship. Taking advantage of large number of high-quality studies on FDI and its role in explaining the growth in firms' productivity in Europe, we adopt recent meta-regression analysis methodsfunnel asymmetry and precision estimate tests and precision-effect estimate with standard errorsto explain the heterogeneous impact of FDI. This paper assesses the country-specific impact of FDI on firms' performance, after taking publication selection bias, econometric modelling and the individual studies' characteristics fully into account. Our results show that on average FDI has a positive indirect impact on productivity. The impact is especially significant in selected European countries, and we interpret this as a sign of better absorptive capacities in those countries.
WC Business, Finance; Economics; International Relations

TI When starting with the most expensive option makes sense: Optimal timing, cost and sectoral allocation of abatement investment
DE Climate change mitigation; Translation to clean capital; Path dependence; social cost of carbon; Marginal abatement cost; Timing
AB This paper finds that it is optimal to start a long-term emission-reduction strategy with significant short-term abatement investment, even if the optimal carbon price starts low and grows progressively over time. Moreover, optimal marginal abatement investment costs differ across sectors of the economy. It may be preferable to spend $25 to avoid the marginal ton of carbon in a sector where abatement capital is expensive, such as public transportation, or in a sector with large abatement potential, such as the power sector, than $15 for the marginal ton in a sector with lower cost or lower abatement potential. The reason, distinct from learning spillovers, is that reducing greenhouse gas emissions requires investment in long-lived abatement capital such as clean power plants or public transport infrastructure. The value of abatement investment comes from avoided emissions, but also from the value of abatement capital in the future. The optimal levelized cost of conserved carbon can thus be higher than the optimal carbon price. It is higher in sectors with higher investment needs: those where abatement capital is more expensive or sectors with larger abatement potential. We compare our approach to the traditional abatement-cost-curve model and discuss implications for policy design. (C) 2018 Published by Elsevier Inc.
WC Business; Economics; Environmental Studies

TI The influence of distance types on co-patenting and co-publishing in the USA and Europe over time
DE Regional innovation; multivariate index; factor analysis
AB This study focuses on diverse dimensions of distance shaping collaboration in Europe and the USA during the time period 1999-2009. We take a comparative perspective by analysing two different collaboration networks (patents and publications) and two different economic areas, in order to examine differences in collaboration activities. In particular, we investigate how the collaboration intensity between regions has been influenced by spatial, technological, and cultural distance and whether these distances have lost importance over time in the distinct networks. The study adopts a panel spatial interaction modelling perspective. The results show that indeed the impact of various kinds of distances differs between Europe and the USA and changes over time.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Export-led innovation: the role of export destinations
DE Knowledge diffusion; FDI; total factor productivity (TFP); stochastic frontier analysis; Chinese industry
AB This article analyzes the effect of exporting activity on the innovative performances of firms in France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and UK. It argues that the positive effect of exporting on innovation usually found in the literature varies according to the specific destinations of exports, and it identifies two dimensions along which export destinations might differ: the level of foreign technological spillovers available to exporting firms (the technological learning effect) and the type of foreign demand that exporting firms are able to access (the foreign demand effect). The empirical analysis, which takes advantage of firm-level information about the export destinations of exporters, shows that while the technological learning effect increases mainly the incentives to introduce brand new product innovations, the foreign demand effect fosters the adoption of process innovations.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Modelling regional productivity performance across Western Europe
DE technical efficiency; spatial spillovers; frontier analysis; stochastic production function; spatial Durbin model; European regions
AB This study investigates the potential role of variations in technical efficiency as a contributing factor in providing an explanation for convergence or divergence in Western Europe. To control for spatial dependence among regions, it uses a spatial stochastic frontier framework that integrates spatial econometric techniques with stochastic frontier panel-data models. The empirical analysis reveals there is a strong geographical pattern of regional efficiency, while the degree of average regional efficiency has increased steadily year by year. From a European regional policy perspective, we can conclude that differentiated development strategies seem more appropriate than homogeneous or best-practice investment approaches.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Innovation effects on employment in high-tech and low-tech industries: evidence from large international firms within the triad
DE Regional economics; Innovation; R&D spillovers; Employment
AB In this paper we investigate the role of financial shocks, such as the economic crisis since 2006, in the reallocation process of employment flows in high-tech and low-tech industries. The contributions of the paper to the literature are threefold. First, a general framework of employment growth is estimated by using a dataset made of 879 large international firms observed for the period 2002-2010 and localized in three economic areas: USA, Japan and Europe. Second, we develop a database merging the firms' data with EPO patents data. In particular, the innovation variable is proxied by the R&D capital stock. Third contribution to the literature is to analyze the extent to which the economic crisis may affect the sensitivity of employment with respect to own innovation but also with respect to outside innovation, the R&D spillovers, in high-tech and low-tech industries. The empirical results suggest some important and significant results. This comparative finding could be the source of relevant industrial policy implications.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Theoretical perspectives on localized knowledge spillovers and agglomeration
DE Agglomeration economies; innovation; R&D spillovers; location
AB Empirical evidence shows that innovation is geographically concentrated, but whether localized knowledge spillovers provide a logically valid explanation for this phenomenon is unclear. I show that in the context of cost-reducing R&D spillovers between Cournot oligopolists the explanation is plausible: localized knowledge spillovers encourage agglomeration, but whether this leads to higher levels of effective R&D depends on the extent of the spillovers, the number of firms, and the industry's R&D efficiency. Contrary to the earlier theoretical work, this illustrates a context, in which the localized knowledge spillover explanation is actualized, and provides necessary conditions, which can be empirically tested.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Heterogeneous spillovers among Spanish provinces: a generalized spatial stochastic frontier model
DE Heterogeneous spatial spillovers; Spatial stochastic frontier models; Spanish provinces
AB This paper introduces new spatial stochastic frontier models to examine Spanish provinces' efficiency and its evolution over the period 2000-2013. We use a heteroscedastic version of the spatial stochastic frontier models introduced by Glass et al. (J Econ 190(2):289-300, 2016) that, in addition, allows us to identify the determinants of the spatial dependence among provinces. We contribute to the heterogeneous spatial models that have been introduced in recent years, such as Aquaro et al. (Working Paper No. 15-17. USC Dornsife Institute for New Economic Thinking, 2015) and Malikov and Sun (J Econ 199(1):13-34, 2017), allowing measures of spatial dependence specific to each observation. This feature of the model lets us rank all Spanish provinces in accordance with their degree of spatial dependence, information that will aid policymakers to better allocate public resources between provinces. The period examined is of special interest given that it coincides with a break in the economic growth tendency, which leads to a deterioration in Spain ' s economic situation.
WC Business; Economics; Social Sciences, Mathematical Methods

TI Determining the effects of open innovation: the role of knowledge and geographical spillovers
DE open innovation; research and development (R&D); spillovers; manufacturing; firm level
AB Determining the effects of open innovation: the role of knowledge and geographical spillovers. Regional Studies. This paper examines the influence of open-innovation strategies and knowledge spillovers on innovative performance on a large sample of Spanish manufacturing firms during 1998-2013. Although most open-innovation strategies positively influence innovation, some differences are found depending on the search innovative strategy: technological collaboration with universities, providers, and external research and development (R&D) advice have a positive effect, while collaborations with customers and competitors are not significant. Finally, the paper confirms the positive effects of involuntary knowledge spillovers only for product innovation and of R&D neighbours in the same sector; and the negative effect of R&D neighbours in other sectors. Regional Studies. 19982013,,(R&D),,,,R&DR&D RESUMEDeterminer les effets de l'innovation partagee: le role des retombees de la connaissance et de la geographie. Regional Studies. partir d'un echantillon d'entreprises industrielles espagnoles suffisamment important, ce present article cherche a examiner l'influence des strategies d'innovation partagee et des retombees de connaissance sur leur performance innovatrice entre 1998 et 2013. Bien que la plupart des strategies d'innovation partagee influent de maniere positive sur l'innovation, il s'avere certaines differences en fonction de la strategie de recherche en matiere d'innovation: la collaboration technologique aupres des universites, des fournisseurs, et des conseils recherche et developpement (R&D) externalises a un effet positif, alors que la collaboration aupres des clients et des concurrents n'est pas significatif. Pour conclure, on confirme l'effet positif des retombees de connaissance involontaires quant a l'innovation de produit, et l'effet positif des voisins R&D du meme secteur d'activite et l'effet negatif des voisins R&D dans d'autres secteurs. ZUSAMMENFASSUNGErmittlung der Auswirkungen von offener Innovation: die Rolle von Wissens- und geografischen ubertragungseffekten. Regional Studies. In diesem Beitrag untersuchen wir anhand einer umfangreichen Stichprobe von spanischen produzierenden Firmen im Zeitraum von 1998 bis 2013 den Einfluss von Strategien fur offene Innovation und von Wissensubertragungen auf die innovative Leistung. Die meisten Strategien fur offene Innovation wirken sich positiv auf die Innovation aus, doch je nach der innovativen Suchstrategie finden sich einige Unterschiede: die technische Zusammenarbeit mit Hochschulen, Anbietern und externen Beratern fur Forschung und Entwicklung (F&E) wirkt sich positiv aus, doch die Zusammenarbeit mit Kunden und Konkurrenten ist nicht signifikant. Ebenso werden eine positive Auswirkung von unbeabsichtigten Wissensubertragungen - allerdings nur im Bereich der Produktinnovation -, eine positive Auswirkung von F&E-Nachbarn im selben Sektor und eine negative Auswirkung von F&E-Nachbarn in anderen Sektoren festgestellt. RESUMENAnalisis de los efectos de la innovacion abierta: el papel de la difusion de conocimiento y las repercusiones geograficas. Regional Studies. En este articulo analizamos la influencia de las estrategias de innovacion abierta y la difusion de conocimiento en el desempeno de innovacion en una amplia muestra de empresas manufactureras espanolas entre 1998 y 2013. Aunque la mayoria de estrategias de innovacion abierta influyen positivamente en la innovacion, se observan algunas diferencias en funcion de la estrategia de innovacion buscada: la colaboracion tecnologica con universidades, proveedores y el asesoramiento externo de investigacion y desarrollo (I+D) tienen un efecto positivo mientras que las colaboraciones con clientes y competidores no son significativos. Para terminar, se confirman un efecto positivo de la difusion de conocimiento involuntaria solamente para la innovacion de productos, un efecto positivo de vecinos de I+D en el mismo sector y un efecto negativo de vecinos de I+D en otros sectores.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Time-Varying Spillover and the Portfolio Diversification Implications of Clean Energy Equity with Commodities and Financial Assets
DE clean energy stocks; directional spillover; dynamic conditional correlations; oil prices
AB This article examines the time-varying spillover and its implications on hedging and portfolio diversification for clean energy equities (WilderHill New Energy Global Innovation Index (NEX)) with technology stocks (PSE), four energy sub-indices of Standard & Poor Goldman Sachs Commodity Index (S&P-GSCI) viz., Crude oil, Brent crude oil, Gasoline and Heating oil and three major global equities indices represented by the USA, Europe, World, Dow-Jones Islamic Market Index (DJIMI) along with USD-Euro exchange rate. We find that in a mixed portfolio set-up, the inclusion of NEX in energy portfolio provides better diversification and risk reduction benefits for hedgers and portfolio managers.
WC Business; Economics; International Relations

TI Regional economic development in Europe: the role of total factor productivity
DE regional economic development; total factor productivity; development accounting; European regions
AB Regional economic development in Europe: the role of total factor productivity. Regional Studies. This paper documents the fact that the large and persistent differences in economic development across subnational regions in European Union countries can largely be attributed to differences in total factor productivity (TFP). Applying the technique of development accounting, the paper decomposes differences in output per worker across 257 European Union regions into a component due to the local availability of production factors and a component due to TFP. As the analysis reveals, TFP differences are large even within countries, and are strongly related to economic geography and historical development paths. This suggests limited interregional diffusion of technology and of efficient production practices.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Is the Ukrainian economy's absorptive capacity appropriate to attract foreign direct investment and facilitate economic growth?
DE Human capital; Foreign direct investment (FDI); Innovation; Economic growth
AB Purpose Despite an increasing volume of literature focussed on foreign direct investment (FDI) in transition economies, there has been little research into FDI in Ukraine. The relationship between the inflows of FDI (IFDI) and absorptive capacity (AC) has been under-researched in the peripheral transition countries like Ukraine. The purpose of this paper is to analyse the appropriateness of the Ukrainian economy's AC to attract IFDI and facilitate economic growth with a particular focus on AC factors, such as the potential of human resources to absorb innovation and benefit from research and development (R&D) expenditure. Design/methodology/approach This study presents a thoughtful research design: there is an analysis of the AC framework for justification and selection factors that allows a measurement of the potential of Ukraine's AC to attract and exploit IFDI. The study uses data from 25 regions in Ukraine for the 1996-2015 period. To estimate the effects of IFDI on Ukrainian economic growth, a Cobb-Douglas production function is used. As an appropriate instrumentation technique for dynamic panel data, the Generalised Method of Moments is used to provide unbiased and efficient estimates of the results. The application of the interactive term in this study allows the authors to indicate the existence of complementarities between IFDI and human capital, in particular with higher education, that afford opportunity to absorb new technologies and benefit from IFDI. Findings The resulting model indicates that R&D expenditure benefited very significantly in evolving country's innovation system due to economic growth. Physical and human capital has not been used effectively in Ukraine to facilitate economic growth and attract IFDI. The number of patents is not significant in all of the regression models. Moreover, IFDI in Ukraine for the 1996-2015 period did not significantly impact on economic growth. However, the AC of human capital, in particular those with a higher education, is relatively relevant to benefit from IFDI. Practical implications The findings have important implications for governmental policy, which should be based on improving the business climate, a strategy for digital development, innovation, migration, institutional and regional policies aimed at the achievement of country's sustainable economic growth. The government should increase R&D expenditure as an important factor of gross domestic product growth and introduce grants, loans and other financial supports for encouraging students to continue university education. Originality/value The originality and value of this paper is empirical and methodological. The empirical results of this study enable a conclusion about the appropriate level of the country's absorptive capability required to benefit from IFDI. The paper also contributes to the existing academic debate and proves that despite the well-established theoretical framework for the IFDI-AC economic impact context, a new theorisation is needed to explore the full complexity of the country's explicit relationship between AC and IFDI. Future research should be focussed on examining not only groups of countries but also distinctly the country's explicit relationship between AC and IFDI with the particular attention for the under-researched countries: the peripheral transition economies to discover new research niches for theory building. This study presents an original methodological approach with a careful justification of the theoretical framework for hypothesis development, an appropriate sample and an original application of seminal research methods based on the Cobb-Douglas production function. This study proves that the interactive term, which allows indication of the existence of complementarities between IFDI and other variables, is appropriate for measuring AC in countries with smaller amounts of IFDI.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Technological diversity in Europe: empirical evidence from agri-food research projects
DE Framework Programme; technological diversity; smart specialization; European regions; agri-food industry
AB Technological diversity in Europe: empirical evidence from agri-food research projects. Regional Studies. Regional technological diversity is the capacity of regions to carry out research in multiple technology fields. Based on the analysis of 730 competitive research projects funded by the 7th European Framework Programme in agri-food, we show that the capacity to obtain funding and the regional degree of centrality in collaborative networks promote technological diversity. European programmes for research tend to encourage specialization in peripheral territories and technological diversity in central regions. This has challenging implications for a policy that wants to promote research excellence and, simultaneously, to reduce the wide regional variation in research and innovation performance across the European Union.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI How Technological Efficiency Improvements Change Consumer Preferences: Towards a Psychological Theory of Rebound Effects
DE Energy efficiency; Sustainable consumption; Rebound effect; Decoupling
AB The use of technologies can influence consumer preferences and demand and hence, impact on environmental sustainability. This article contributes to research on 'rebound effects', which focus on how energy efficiency improvements (EEI) increase energy service demand. Most of 35 years of rebound research has been analyzed from micro- and macro-economic perspectives. Yet, micro-economic rebound research has so far investigated human behavior only on grounds of simple rational choice models and static assumptions about consumer preferences. This article exposes the existing rebound discourse to psychological theories. Building on considerations of how EEI can interfere with processes of decision-making, it develops a model of how EEI - via psychological processes - may lead to 'motivational rebound effects' as well as to 'beneficial effects', which countervail rebounds. The article then advances a typology of such rebound and beneficial effects that not only integrates the typology currently used in the micro-economic rebound literature, but goes beyond it. Model and typology explain how economic rebound research could benefit from psychological theory, provide the basis for empirically investigating rebound effects on more solid theoretical grounds, and empower a comprehensive discussion about policies and measures that aim at a sustainable use of technologies.
WC Ecology; Economics; Environmental Sciences; Environmental Studies

TI The Dual Effects of Information Technology Clusters: Learning and Selection
DE cluster; innovation; selection; learning
AB Clusters are hubs of innovation. Economic developers have initiated a great deal of policies to promote clusters and encourage technological advancement. Despite the efforts of previous studies to quantify the cluster innovation relationship, they failed to differentiate two major mechanisms, such as learning (firms improving in clusters) and selection (less innovative firms being forced out of clusters). This study differentiates and quantifies learning and selection using nonparametric estimation and quantile regression. Using employment and establishment data as well as patent data from Maryland from the years 2001 to 2012, this study detects both mechanisms in information technology clusters. Learning in clusters increases patent filing by 15.7% to 17.2% for firms that have ever filed for patents. At the same time, firms filing fewer than one patent per year are 40% less likely to survive in clusters than they are in nonclusters. Magnitudes of both effects should be considered in the design of cluster policies.
WC Development Studies; Economics; Urban Studies

TI Relatedness, external linkages and regional innovation in Europe
DE related variety; unrelated variety; patents; patent citations; knowledge production function; European regions
AB Relatedness, external linkages and regional innovation in Europe. Regional Studies. This paper analyses if the generation of new knowledge benefits from the combination of similar or dissimilar pieces of existing technologies, in terms of their technological content (related versus unrelated variety), for the case of European regions. Specifically, it analyses the relevance of variety in the case of local knowledge as well as in the case of the knowledge coming from other regions. At the local level, it shows that while related variety is conducive to regional innovation, unrelated variety does play a role, too, when it comes to radical innovations. Conversely, it also shows that external knowledge flows have a higher impact, the higher the similarity between these flows and the extant local knowledge base. Regional Studies. ,(),,,,,,, RESUMELa parente, les liens externes et l'innovation regionale en Europe. Regional Studies. Ce present article cherche a analyser si la production de nouvelles connaissances profite de la synergie des elements similaires ou differents des technologies existantes, en termes de leur contenu technologique (a savoir, la variete apparantee ou non apparantee), pour ce qui est des regions europeennes. Plus precisement, on cherche a analyser l'importance de la variete en ce qui concerne la connaissance locale ainsi que la connaissance qui provient des autres regions. Sur le plan local, on montre que la variete non apparentee a un role a jouer aussi, meme si la variete parentee est propice a l'innovation regionale quand il s'agit des innovations radicales. D'un autre cote, on montre aussi que les flux de connaissances externes ont un plus grand impact plus la similarite entre ces flux et la base de la connaissance locale existante s'avere importante. ZUSAMMENFASSUNGVerbundenheit, externe Verknupfungen und regionale Innovation in Europa. Regional Studies. In diesem Beitrag analysieren wir anhand des Falls der europaischen Regionen, ob die Erzeugung neuen Wissens von der Kombination ahnlicher oder unterschiedlicher Elemente vorhandener Technologien profitiert, was ihren technologischen Gehalt (verbundene oder unverbundene Vielfalt) anbelangt. Insbesondere wird die Relevanz der Vielfalt im Fall des lokalen Wissens sowie im Fall des von anderen Regionen kommenden Wissens untersucht. Auf lokaler Ebene zeigt sich, dass verbundene Vielfalt zwar zu regionaler Innovation fuhrt, aber auch unverbundene Vielfalt eine Rolle spielt, wenn es um radikale Innovationen geht. Gleichzeitig zeigt sich, dass externe Wissensstrome eine umso starkere Auswirkung haben, je hoher die Ahnlichkeit zwischen diesen Stromen und der vorhandenen lokalen Wissensbasis ausfallt. RESUMENVinculos, conexiones externas e innovacion regional en Europa. Regional Studies. A partir del caso de las regiones europeas, en este articulo analizamos si la generacion de nuevo conocimiento se beneficia de la combinacion de elementos similares o diferentes de tecnologias existentes en cuanto a su contenido tecnologico (variedad relacionada o no relacionada). En concreto, examinamos la relevancia de la variedad en el caso del conocimiento local, asi como en el caso del conocimiento que viene de otras regiones. En el ambito local, se observa que aunque la variedad relacionada es favorable a la innovacion regional, la variedad no relacionada tambien desempena un papel en lo que respecta a las innovaciones radicales. Asimismo se muestra que los flujos del conocimiento externo tienen un impacto mas alto cuanto mas alta es la similitud entre estos flujos y la base actual del conocimiento local.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI The determinants and growth effects of foreign direct investment in small economies
DE Geographic clustering; technological distance; multilocation firms; knowledge appropriation
AB The effects of geographic distance and technological distance on knowledge spillovers have been well acknowledged in the literature, but the two distances were mostly discussed in parallel. Taking advantage of the context of multilocation firms in technology clusters, we consider the joint role of geographic and technological distances by focusing on a salient feature of clusters: firms' concern about knowledge appropriation. Specifically, we analyze how a firm's choice of technological distance from local entities is affected by the competitive environment in the cluster as well as its intra-firm technological structure across clusters. Empirical findings based on the global semiconductors industry support our theory that, with stronger local competition, an innovating entity will increase its technological distance from neighbors to reduce unintended knowledge spillovers. However, the technological distance is smaller when the entity is part of a multilocation firm, has a larger technological distance from other locations within the firm and has stronger intra-firm integration across locations. We argue that these features limit knowledge spillovers and, hence, reduce firms' reliance on technological distance as a strategy for knowledge appropriation.
WC Development Studies; Economics; Environmental Studies; Political Science

TI Does absorptive capacity determine collaboration returns to innovation? A geographical dimension
DE Structural transformation; Local labor markets; Regional spillovers; China
AB This paper aims to estimate the impact of collaboration in innovation activities with partners in different geographical areas on innovative performance. By using the Spanish Technological Innovation Panel, this study provides evidence that the benefits of collaboration differ across different dimensions of the geography. We find that the impact of extra-European cooperation on innovation performance is larger than that of national and European cooperation, indicating that firms tend to benefit more from interaction with international collaborators as a way to access new technologies or specialized and novel knowledge that they are unable to find locally. We also find evidence of the positive role played by absorptive capacity, concluding that it implies a higher premium on the innovation returns to cooperation in the international case and mainly in the European one.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Does heterogeneity matter to the direct effect of FDI on firm performance? The case of Indian firms
DE Foreign direct investment (FDI); Technology diffusion; Technology transfer; Multinational corporations (MNCs); Mergers and acquisitions (M&A)
AB Purpose The purpose of this paper is to estimate the direct effects of foreign direct investment (FDI) on domestic target firms' profitability gains, in India, post-acquisition. In particular, it focuses on identifying the importance of firms' heterogeneities on the effects, taking into account the source of FDI, the intensity of firm interaction, and the target firms' technology-absorptive capacity. Most importantly, the paper investigates whether the estimates depend on a combined rather than single impact of these heterogeneities. Design/methodology/approach To control for the possibility of selection bias and endogeneity, this empirical analysis uses a methodology that combines propensity score matching and difference-in-differences (PSM-DID) in adopting a comprehensive data set of both foreign- and Indian-acquired firms that were purchased through mergers and acquisitions in India between 1991 and 2013. Findings The analysis reveals four major findings. First, overall, the post-foreign acquisition target firms' performance gains were positive and varied by the heterogeneous technology transfer capacity of the foreign investor. Second, it is possible that target firms located in industrial clusters with more foreign agglomeration experienced larger profitability gains through more dynamic firm interactions in terms of spillovers. Third, Indian targets with higher technology-absorptive capacity benefitted in higher profitability gains from acquiring and assimilating the superior technology that is transferred from foreign investors. Finally, an optimal combination of Indian target firms with higher technology-absorptive capacity and foreign investors with higher technology transfer capacity maximizes profitability gains, post-acquisition. This synergy effect is particularly prominent in clusters where more foreign firms agglomerate. Originality/value This study captures the true direct effect of FDI by adjusting the combined causal effects of various inherent heterogeneities in the target firms' performance, thus correcting any possible bias, which few previous studies have addressed.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI The role of R&D collaboration networks on regional knowledge creation: Evidence from information and communication technologies
DE R&D collaboration networks; knowledge creation performance; spatial econometrics; ICT
AB We investigate how R&D networks impact regional innovation, considering alternative connectivity structures based on co-publications, co-inventions and projects supported by the EU-FP. Patent activity impacts on ICT during 2003-2009 for 213 European regions are quantified using a spatial Durbin model. Findings indicate that local knowledge flows to proximate regions are influenced by: proximate regions that are not collaboration partners, proximate collaboration partners, and distant collaboration partners. Evidence on the role of distant collaboration partners is found only for co-invention networks.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI The effect of brain drain on productivity growth in small states
DE Government intervention; Innovative nascent entrepreneurship; Scientific knowledge; Technological knowledge
AB Which kind of government intervention is needed to transform scientific and technological knowledge into innovative nascent entrepreneurship? We answer this question by drawing upon the knowledge spillover theory of entrepreneurship and institutional theory. We empirically examined the moderating effect of government intervention on the relation between knowledge and innovative nascent entrepreneurship with cross-country panel data on 47 countries from 2002 to 2012. Our results first show that a smaller government sector is required to transform technological knowledge into innovative nascent entrepreneurship. In addition, we found that a larger government sector and more regulation of credit, labor, and business increase the transformation of scientific knowledge into innovative nascent entrepreneurship. We contribute to understanding the role of government in transforming scientific and technological knowledge into innovative nascent entrepreneurship.
WC Development Studies; Economics; Environmental Studies; Political Science

TI Firm location, interaction, and local characteristics: A case study for Madrid's electronics sector
DE Industrial location; Gibbs models; agglomeration economies; local public goods
AB We use geo-referenced establishment data to estimate parameters of a Gibbs model. The statistical model is used to decompose the conditional intensity of the spatial point process into trend and interaction components. The trend captures covariates related to firms' costs, accessibility to public transport infrastructures, to technical universities and to cultural and recreational facilities. The ability to specify a Geyer interaction component captures the existence of additional spillovers providing a deeper insight into inter-establishment spatial dynamics. The results challenge some of the outcomes of the inter-urban industrial location literature, confirming that spatial aggregation compromises results in studies of business location. Firms' location decisions are dominated by site costs, with transportation costs being much less of a consideration; universities geographical knowledge spillovers are confirmed for large establishments; and amenities are unlikely to be important location factors.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Renewable energy innovations and sustainability transition: How relevant are spatial spillovers?
DE diffusion; geography; innovation; sustainability; transition
AB In the societal challenge to switch to renewable energy, innovation has become an ever-increasing critical determinant. However, while sustainability transition is a global challenge, diffusion and adoption of innovation tends to be uneven in space and unequal access may cause substantial heterogeneity in energy transition. This research analyzes how domestic and foreign innovation activities in the renewable energy sector influence energy transition over time. Empirical testing shows that a country's domestic innovation activity impacts renewable electricity generation capacity sooner than foreign technological innovations. I document that there are substantial barriers to substitute foreign technologies for domestic innovation efforts in the short run but also observe that foreign technologies have a stronger impact after some years. These findings have implications for cross-border coordination of governmental innovation support and complementary policy instruments that aim at increasing adoption speed across borders.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Regional knowledge, entrepreneurial culture, and innovative start-ups over time and space-an empirical investigation
DE Innovative start-ups; Universities; Regional knowledge; Regional cultures of entrepreneurship
AB We investigate the role of entrepreneurship culture and the historical knowledge base of a region on current levels of new business formation in innovative industries. The analysis is for German regions and covers the time period 1907-2014. We find a pronounced positive relationship between high levels of historical self-employment in science-based industries and new business formation in innovative industries today. This long-term legacy effect of entrepreneurial tradition indicates the prevalence of a regional culture of entrepreneurship. Moreover, local presence and geographic proximity to a technical university founded before the year 1900 is positively related to the level of innovative start-ups more than a century later. The results show that a considerable part of the knowledge that constitutes an important source of entrepreneurial opportunities is deeply rooted in history. We draw conclusions for policy and for further research.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI International environmental agreements with agenda and interaction between pollutants
DE Environmental agreement; Multiple pollutants; Negotiation agenda; Membership
AB This paper analyzes how the sequence of negotiating agreements on each pollutant affects coalition behavior in international environmental agreements (IEAs) when multiple and correlated pollutants exist. I consider a model in which countries suffer from two pollutants with different externality characteristics and attempt to cooperate by sequentially negotiating on IEAs. The membership outcome depends on the environmental concern, abatement technology, spillover effect and most importantly the correlation between pollutants as either substitutes or complements. I find that cooperation in the first stage can facilitate later negotiations and that countries are prone to cooperate on a pollutant of common concern. Moreover, except for symmetric countries, different negotiation agendas may result in distinctive participation outcomes when pollutants are complements. Therefore, with systematic policy design, the negotiation sequence can serve as another method to encourage participation and cooperation in IEAs.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Law; Political Science

TI Rethinking the commons problem: Technical change, knowledge spillovers, and social learning
DE Common resources; Technological change; Knowledge spillovers; Social learning; Commons externality; Endogenous growth; Fundamental equation of renewable resources
AB The commons problem is even more severe than standard economic analysis suggests due to accumulated and new technology accompanied by spillovers of nonrival knowledge, creating a second market failure. The resulting endogenous dynamic increasing returns to scale external to producers that create endogenous growth of production lead to ongoing and accelerating rates of natural capital depletion. Optimum and open-access steady-state equilibriums indicated by canonical models may not exist, and corresponding resource stocks vary considerably from conventional wisdom. Market-based solutions alone for the commons problem are insufficient to achieve optimal economic welfare, and require a complementary technology policy for the second market failure and dynamic increasing returns to scale arising from nonrival ideas and knowledge spillovers and social learning. An empirical example illustrates the impact of technological change and accompanying knowledge spillovers and social learning. (C) 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
WC Business; Economics; Environmental Studies

TI Does R&D offshore outsourcing improve innovation in vendor firms from emerging economies? A study of biopharmaceutical industry in India
DE R&D offshore outsourcing; R&D internationalization; Innovation from emerging economy firms; Third-party vendors; Technological capabilities; Indian bio-pharmaceutical industry
AB Purpose While the phenomenon of R&D offshoring has become increasingly popular, scholars have mostly focused on R&D offshore outsourcing from the point of view of the client firms, who are often from an advanced country. By examining vendor firms, in this paper the authors shift the focus to the second party in the dyadic relationship of R&D offshore outsourcing. Specifically, the authors compare vendor firms with nonvendor firms from the same emerging economy and industry to look at whether vendor firms from emerging economies can improve their innovation performance by learning from their clients. The authors also look at the role of depth and breadth of existing technological capabilities of the vendor firm in its ability to improve its innovation performance. Design/methodology/approach This study is based on firm-level data from the Indian biopharmaceutical industry between 2005 and 2016. The authors use the Heckman two-stage model to control for self-selection by firms. The authors compare the innovation performance of vendor firms with nonvendor biopharmaceutical firms (group vs nongroup analysis) as well as innovation performance across vendor firms (within group comparison). Findings The authors find that, compared to nonvendor firms, R&D offshore outsourcing vendor firms from emerging economies have higher innovation performance. The authors argue that this higher innovation performance among vendor firms is due to learning from their clients. Among vendor firms, the authors find that the innovation gains are contingent upon the two factors of depth and breadth of the vendor firms' technological capabilities. Research limitations/implications This paper makes three contributions: First, the authors augment the nascent stream of research on innovation from emerging economy firms. The authors introduce a new mechanism for emerging economy firms to learn and upgrade their capabilities. Second, the authors contribute to the literature on global value chains, by showing that vendor firms are able to learn from their clients and upgrade their capabilities. Third, by examining the innovation by vendor firms, the authors contribute to the R&D offshore outsourcing, which has largely focused on the client. Practical implications The study findings have important implications for both clients and vendors. For client firms, the authors provide evidence that knowledge spillovers do happen, and R&D offshore outsourcing can turn vendors into potential competitors. This research helps firms from emerging economies by showing that becoming vendors for R&D offshore outsourcing is a viable option to learn from foreign firms and improve innovation performance. Going outside geographic boundaries may be a large hurdle for these resource-strapped, emerging economy firms. Providing offshore outsourcing services for narrow slices of R&D activities may be a starting point for these firms to upgrade their capabilities. Originality/value This paper is among the first to quantitatively study the innovation performance of vendor firms from emerging economies. The authors also contribute to the nascent literature on innovation in emerging economy firms by showing that providing R&D offshore outsourcing services to client firms from advanced countries can improve firms' innovation performance.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Knowledge flows and technologies in renewable energies at the regional level in Europe
DE innovation; renewable energies; knowledge bases; patents; citations
AB This study provides a new insight into the impact of knowledge flows for renewable energy (RE) technologies. With patent data for the European regions in the period 2000-10, we observe that RE technologies have more analytical knowledge content than the rest of the technologies. They also seem to benefit highly from both scientific knowledge flows and technological knowledge flows coming from distant places. This pattern is peculiar to the RE field and different from other cutting-edge technologies, and even different from those technologies related to energy generation coming from traditional energy sectors.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Travel costs, trade, and market segmentation: Evidence from China's high-speed railway
DE high-speed railway; inter-regional trade; market segmentation; transportation infrastructure
AB Using high-speed railway construction as a natural experiment, this paper contributes to our understanding of how passenger-oriented transportation infrastructure affects inter-regional trade. The findings show that trade value increases and market segmentation decreases with high-speed railway (HSR) expansion, indicating that movement of people fosters movement of freight. The heterogeneous analyses suggest that technology-intensive industries and provinces with poorer pre-existing ICT level are impacted more. The impact is driven by a substitution effect between HSR and conventional railways in passenger transportation service, and by accelerated information exchange and knowledge spillover.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Identifying IFDI and OFDI Productivity Spatial Spillovers: Evidence from China
DE Chinese manufacturing; foreign direct investment; productivity; spatial econometrics; spillovers
AB Using an original and unique merged large-scale Chinese dataset over 2002-2007, this article investigates the productivity spatial spillover effects from both inward and outward foreign direct investment (FDI) to private-owned domestic firms based on intra- and inter-regional dimensions. Results show strong evidence that the positive outward FDI (OFDI) spillover effect dominates in inter-region, whereas no significant positive effect exists in intra-region. By contrast, no significant spatial spillover effect is observed from inward FDI (IFDI). In addition, there exists the optimum geographical distance on productivity spatial spillovers as a result of the non-linear impact of the geographical proximity. These results are robust after controlling potential endogeneity and to different specifications.
WC Business; Economics; International Relations

TI Global trends in private agricultural research
DE Competitive dynamics; High-tech firm; Independent research and development; Innovative behaviour-based decision; Technology introduction
AB Purpose The purpose of this paper is to determine how high-tech firms should choose between independent research and development and technology introduction as well as to ascertain the effects of the three elements of competitive dynamics on the evolution of innovative behavior-based decisions and competitive results. Design/methodology/approach This paper describes the construction of an evolutionary game model and a multi-agent-based model of innovative behavior-based decisions by heterogeneous high-tech firms. The models are used to analyze the evolution path and evolutionarily stable strategy of innovative behavior-based decisions. In addition, multi-agent-based simulation is used to gain insight into the effects of competitive dynamics on the dynamic evolution of innovative behavior-based decisions. Findings This paper reveals four evolutionary equilibrium states of the innovation behavior-based decisions of high-tech firms. Based on the findings, these overall evolutionary trends are not affected by the timing of competitive market entry or the intensity of competition. In addition, simulated evidence is added that the timing of competitive market entry is an important factor affecting market-leading innovative strategies and dynamic competition results, and competition intensity is closely related to the evolutionary speed of innovation behavior-based decisions. Originality/value The key contribution of this paper is its new view of innovative behavior-based decisions from a competitive dynamics perspective. The new competitive dynamics-based framework for innovative behavior-based decisions of high-tech firms proposed in the paper can resolve the problem of obtaining a sustainable competitive advantage for high-tech firms in a competitive dynamics context.
WC Agricultural Economics & Policy; Area Studies; Development Studies; Economics

TI Do Information Technologies Improve Teenagers' Sexual Education? Evidence from a Randomized Evaluation in Colombia
DE information technologies; Internet; sex education; teenagers; field experiment; Colombia
AB This study reports results from a randomized evaluation of a mandatory six-month Internet-based sexual education course implemented across public junior high schools in 21 Colombian cities. Six months after finishing the course, the study finds a 0.4 standard deviation improvement in knowledge, a 0.2 standard deviation improvement in attitudes, and a 55 percent increase in the likelihood of redeeming vouchers for condoms as a result of taking the course. The data provide no evidence of spillovers to control classrooms within treatment schools. However, the analysis provides compelling evidence that treatment effects are enhanced when a larger share of a student's friends also takes the course. The low cost of the online course along with the effectiveness the study documents suggests this technology is a viable alternative for improving sexual education in middle-income countries.
WC Business, Finance; Development Studies; Economics

TI The Spatial Effect of the Efficiency of Regional Financial Resource Allocation from the Perspective of Internet Finance: Evidence from Chinese Provinces
DE efficiency of regional financial resource allocation; Internet finance; long-tail theory; spatial effect
AB In this article, we analyzed the impact mechanism of Internet finance on the efficiency of regional financial resource allocation. A data envelopment analysis-Malmquist model is used to measure the efficiency of financial resource allocation in 30 provinces in China, and the impact of Internet finance on the efficiency of regional financial resource allocation is tested using a spatial Durbin model. The results show clear spatial agglomeration and spillover effects in the efficiency of regional financial resource allocation. In addition, developing Internet finance can promote the efficiency and technological progress of regional financial resource allocation and can enhance efficiency and technological progress in the allocation of financial resources in adjacent regions. However, it can hurt the technical efficiency of regional financial resource allocation.
WC Business; Economics; International Relations

TI The Role of Universities in Harnessing Entrepreneurial Opportunities
DE Entrepreneurial university; Knowledge spillover; Entrepreneurship; Entrepreneurial education; Entrepreneurial opportunity
AB Universities have been documented as key influencers in the performance of agri-food innovation and entrepreneurial activities, and have been evidenced as significant contributors to building the competencies of food system members. Their role in promoting sustainable transitions in food systems through knowledge creation and human capital development cannot be ignored. The current food systems provide an array of entrepreneurial opportunities for its institutions and invidual members who seek to create value while simultaneously ameliorating the present challenges that threaten natural resources. However, it has been noted that individual entrepreneurial skills are not enough to fully assess the presence of opportunities in the complex food system. Universities are therefore seen as key elements to provide further practical education that includes social and interaction techniques, education for business creation, and provide access to diverse networks and viable markets in order to boost opportunity recognition capacities for aspiring entrepreneurs. In this chapter we provide a review of the main drivers of the university's role in promoting research, innovation, and entrepreneurship through their entrepreneurial strategies and programmes.
WC Agricultural Economics & Policy; Green & Sustainable Science & Technology; Economics; Management

TI How many firms benefit from a window of opportunity? Knowledge spillovers, industry characteristics, and catching up in the Chinese biomass power plant industry
DE Innovation; endogenous growth; knowledge spillovers; relatedness; clusters
AB The literature on the catching up of latecomer countries has pointed at windows of opportunity as a precondition for catching up. Previous research has however failed to illuminate the determining factors affecting the number of firms benefitting from windows of opportunity. The current article addresses this gap by combining insights on the nature of knowledge spillovers with sectoral characteristics. This perspective is applied empirically by analyzing the number of firms benefitting from a 'green' window of opportunity in the Chinese biomass power plant industry, specifically related to changes in the institutional framework conditions in the form of a feed-in tariff and specified targets for renewable energy. The article finds that while a single Chinese firm constituted the initial phase of the catch-up cycle, domestic knowledge spillovers allowed a larger number of Chinese firms to benefit from the window of opportunity in the later stage of the catch-up cycle. The article points at the importance of combining sectoral characteristics with the degree of domestic knowledge spillovers as key determinants for the number of firms profiting from windows of opportunity.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Regional disparities and industrial structure: territorial capital and productivity in Italian firms
DE territorial capital; regional resources; total factor productivity; regional disparities; firm productivity
AB The role of territorial capital (TC) on the productivity of Italian firms is investigated by constructing indicators for eight dimensions of TC in a first attempt to capture a wide variety of regional resources. When imposing homogeneous TC effects on all firms, it is found that technological, social, institutional, financial and infrastructure capital drive productivity. However, only technological and artistic capital contribute to reduce regional disparities. Across industries, financial capital and infrastructure increase productivity in companies operating in a wide range of sectors. Industrial policies should consider sectoral heterogeneity and north-south differences to effectively boost productivity performance.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Technological spillovers from multinational firms
DE multinational firms; productivity; R&D; technological spillovers
AB This paper aims to identify genuine technological spillovers from multinational firms (MNEs). To this end, we use data on R&D from MNEs to measure spillovers, while most of the existing literature uses output to measure the foreign presence in an industry (what we call output-based spillovers). In line with the existing literature, we distinguish between horizontal spillovers (i.e., intra-industry linkages) and vertical spillovers (i.e., backward-or downstream-and forward-or upstream-inter-industry linkages). Our results show that the three types of technological spillovers from MNEs are positive, with the horizontal spillovers the larger ones, followed by backward spillovers. The effect of forward spillovers is much smaller in magnitude. Moreover, we find that not controlling for industry size (i.e., technological spillovers from all firms in an industry) leads to underestimating both horizontal and backward spillovers from MNEs, and to overestimating forward spillovers from MNEs. Finally, we find that the distinction between technological and output-based spillovers is of great relevance. The size of backward technological spillovers is approximately 44% of the size of output-based backward spillovers, while for horizontal spillovers both types of spillovers are quite similar. Importantly, output-based forward spillovers are negative while technological forward spillovers are positive.
WC Business, Finance; Economics; International Relations

TI Innovation and Entrepreneurial Ecosystems: Structure, Boundaries, and Dynamics
DE Innovation ecosystems; Entrepreneurial ecosystems; Value co-creation; Food systems; Sustainability
AB Recognizing the broader dimensions of entrepreneurial and innovation activities, holistic and inclusive networked approaches pave the way to co-creation activities that are essential for achieving sustainability in food systems. Recent studies have started to deepen what are the critical enablers for creating thriving entrepreneurial and innovation ecosystems. Networks that include firms, institutions, and several other relevant stakeholders in knowledge spillovers enable to produce more social and economic value through co-creation processes. However, due to the unique complexity within ecosystems, there is no standardized framework or strategy to develop entrepreneurial or innovation ecosystems effectively. In this chapter, a synthesis of the structure, dynamics, and boundaries of innovation and entrepreneurial ecosystems is presented. In particular, the main differences between these two concepts and the traditional ecosystem concept are provided and an overview of the more well-established definitions and frameworks present in the business and management literature offered. So, the following questions and many others will be addressed: what are the critical factors that lead some ecosystems to success? What the key actors? What dynamics characterize them? Answering these questions may represent an effective solution to address sustainability in the multi-functionality of food systems collectively. Therefore, how the heterogeneous elements and complexity of entrepreneurial and innovation ecosystems can be applied in food system sustainability initiatives will be finally discussed and critical action points for policy and practice recommended.
WC Agricultural Economics & Policy; Green & Sustainable Science & Technology; Economics; Management

TI Firm formation and survival in the shale boom
DE Shale boom; Entrepreneurship; Firm survival
AB We examine the geographical and temporal effects of the technological changes that led to the U.S. shale oil and gas boom. We assess changes in U.S. county rates of entrepreneurship and survival rates of existing businesses across different industries in response to the innovations that led to energy development in counties with shale resources. We employ a panel difference-in-differences approach and rely on the geological determination of the location of shale resources and the unexpected innovation in shale extraction as our source of exogeneity. We find that temporal impacts obscure effects that would look small if we only examined average effects. Namely, new firm formation and salesinitiallydecrease in boom regions, followed by a positive trend after the initial disruption. While new firm formation eventually recovers after many years, the overall impact on business dynamism is negative, suggesting that the areas most affected by this technological change may not benefit.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI To build or not to build? Capital stocks and climate policy
DE academic entrepreneurship; cognitive processes; individual motives
AB We investigate (i) the impact of emission reduction policy on investment in polluting infrastructure, such as coal-fired power stations and (ii) optimal subsidies for "clean" alternatives with "learning" spillovers. We build a general theoretical model, and embed it in a fully calibrated integrated assessment model. Because emission reduction policy reduces investments in polluting assets, short-term emission reductions are enhanced-our "irreversibility effect". Thus, "stranded assets" in this fuel-using sector have distinctive properties. We also provide a simple formula for how the optimal subsidy to deployment of a "clean" sector depends on its rate of "learning-by-doing" and on its socially-optimal growth. So, if the sector should grow faster for other reasons, its optimal subsidy is increased, showing that its optimal growth rate is faster still-our "acceleration effect". Our calibrations show that, to limit global climate change to 2 degrees C warming, investments in coal-fired power stations must end very soon. Considering second-best settings, we show that carbon taxes achieve stringent policy targets more efficiently, but subsidies to the "clean" sector deliver higher welfare, and are more efficient, when policy targets are more mild. (C) 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
WC Business; Economics; Environmental Studies

TI Does external R&D matter for family firm innovation? Evidence from the Italian manufacturing industry
DE Family firms; R&D investment; Innovative sales; Italian manufacturing industry
AB This article focuses on the relationship between external R&D and firm innovation output. Using a sample of Italian manufacturing firms over the period 2007-2009, we estimate the effect of R&D collaboration with the aim to detect differences between family and non-family firms. The study shows that the R&D acquired from external sources has a positive impact on innovative sales, especially for family firms. This result holds when using either the extensive or the intensive margins of R&D collaboration, thereby suggesting that family companies have a greater capacity to translate external R&D into tangible economic benefits. We also find that family firms benefit from the diversity of R&D collaboration.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Time lag analysis of FDI spillover effect Evidence from the Belt and Road developing countries introducing China's direct investment
DE Granger causality; BRI developing countries; China's direct investment; FDI spillover effect; Panel vector autoregression
AB Purpose For the developing countries involving in the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) with China as the main source of foreign development investment (FDI) and development as the top priority, it appears to attract more and more attention on how to make the best use of China's outward foreign development investment. However, the contradictory evidence in the previous studies of FDI spillover effect and the remarkable time-lag feature of spillovers motivate us to analyze the mechanism of FDI spillover effect. The paper aims to discuss this issue. Design/methodology/approach The mechanism of FDI spillovers and the unavoidable lag effect in this process are empirically analyzed. Based on the panel data from the Belt and Road developing countries (BRDCs) and China's direct investments (CDIs) from 2003 to 2017, the authors establish a panel vector autoregressive model, employing impulse response function and variance decomposition analysis, together with Granger causality test. Findings Results suggest a dynamic interactive causality mechanism. First, CDI promotes the economic growth of BRDCs through technical efficiency, human capital and institutional transition with combined lags of five, nine and eight years. Second, improvements in the technical efficiency and institutional quality promote economic growth by facilitating the human capital with integrated delays of six and eight years. Third, China's investment directly affects the economic growth of BRDCs, with a time lag of six years. The average time lag is about eight years. Originality/value Based on the analysis on the mechanism and time lag of FDI spillovers, the authors have shown that many previous articles using one-year lagged FDI to examine the spillover effect have systematic biases, which contributes to the research on the FDI spillover mechanism. It provides new views for host countries on how to make more effective use of FDI, especially for BRDCs using CDIs.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Academic spill-ins or spill-outs? Examining knowledge spillovers of university patents
DE Knowledge triangle; Triple helix; Entrepreneurial university; Civic university; Third mission; Higher education institutions (HEIs); Public research institutions (PRIs); Private companies; Research; Education; Innovation; STI policy
AB In this article, we investigate whether academic technology-based knowledge crosses university boundaries or remains trapped inside the ivory tower. To do so, we rely on a matched sample approach to compare the spillovers generated by academic and firm patents using measures that take into account knowledge spilling-in and knowledge spilling-out of academia. Although it is true that knowledge exchanges among universities may inflate the overall spillovers of university patents vis-a-vis firm patents, our results indicate that university patents generate more spillovers than a comparable sample of matched corporate patents, even when knowledge flows among universities are not regarded as spillovers. This suggests that, in our sample, firm technologies more frequently rely on academic patents than on technologies from other corporations. In addition, we find that the gap between university and industry spillovers differs across industries, with industries where patents are important for appropriating returns from R&D (i.e. more economically valuable), such as drugs, presenting a smaller gap than in industries with complex technologies (where firms have strong incentives to patent aggressively), such as computers. Finally, we show that industry patents generate more spillovers locally and that academic knowledge spillovers are less geographically localized than those of corporate research.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Regional convergence and spatial dependence: a worldwide perspective
DE C23; O47; R11
AB This paper incorporates technological interdependence into a neoclassical regional growth framework with imperfect factor mobility, leading to a convergence equation with spatial effects. The empirical analysis is based on the estimation of a spatial Durbin panel data model and the implementation of multiple imputation techniques. Our results show that taking into account both unobserved heterogeneity and spatial dependence increases the estimated regional convergence rate. This provides an explanation for puzzling findings in the related literature. We also obtain evidence of heterogeneity across country groups regarding the regional speed of convergence and the degree of diffusion of technology.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Localized knowledge spillovers: Evidence from the spatial clustering of R&D labs and patent citations
DE Spatial clustering; Geographic concentration; R&D labs; Localized knowledge spillovers; Patent citations
AB Buzard et al. (2017) show that American R&D labs are highly spatially concentrated even within a given metropolitan area. We argue that the geography of their clusters is better suited for studying knowledge spillovers than are states, metropolitan areas, or other political or administrative boundaries that have predominantly been used in previous studies. In this paper, we assign patents and citations to these newly defined clusters of R&D labs. Our tests show that the localization of knowledge spillovers, as measured via patent citations, is strongest at small spatial scales and diminishes with distance. On average, patents within a cluster are about two to four times more likely to cite an inventor in the same cluster than one in a control group. Of import, we find that the degree of localization of knowledge spillovers will be understated in samples based on metropolitan area definitions compared to samples based on the R&D clusters. At the same time, the strength of knowledge spillovers varies widely between clusters. The results are robust to the specification of patent technological categories, the method of citation matching, and alternate duster definitions.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Urban Studies

TI Globalization, robotization, and electoral outcomes: Evidence from spatial regressions for Italy
DE immigration; import competition; local electoral outcomes; local labor markets; robotization
AB Criticism of economic globalization and technological progress has gained support in Italy in the last two decades. However, due to the differentiated exposure of local labor markets to this process, electoral outcomes have varied considerably across the country. By observing the local impact of three global economic phenomena (flows of migrants, foreign competition in international trade, and diffusion of robots) alongside with the patterns of local electoral outcomes potentially associated with discontent, this study analyzes the economic forces driving the evolution of general elections in 2001, 2008, and 2013 in Italy. The analysis reveals that all these global factors had an impact on political outcomes associated with discontent, albeit in different ways and changing over time. All three factors are associated with increases in votes for far-right parties in the period 2001-2008, but only robotization continues to have such an impact in the following period, while immigration is associated with an increase in votes for the Five-Star Movement at the expense of far-right parties. The results and extensions exploiting recent advances in political geography, political economy, and spatial econometrics make it possible to draw some general and methodological conclusions. Global drivers interact with elements pertaining to the political supply that empirical researchers should not be oblivious about. Political spillovers across neighboring areas add to the direct impact of locally mediated economic factors. Finally, the adoption of shift-share instrumental variables to identify the impact of robotization may lack robustness.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Will Foreign Aid Foster Economic Development? Grid Panel Data Evidence from China's Aid to Africa
DE Foreign aid; Chinese aid; economic development; grid data; satellite-measured night lights
AB The fast growth and unique model of Chinese aid provide new perspectives and empirical evidence for the study of aid effectiveness. This paper employs GIS technology to match Chinese aid projects in Africa with satellite-measured nighttime lights a proxy of economic development and converts them into 0.5 degrees (longitude) x 0.5 degrees (latitude) panel data. First, we find that Chinese aid projects are positively correlated to Africa's economic development. Second, we gain a deep understanding of the mechanisms and find that the aid-growth relationship is mostly attributed to economic infrastructure aid rather than social welfare projects, direct aid as well as production and other types of projects. Spatial panel regression further validates the robustness of the empirical results and sheds light on the spillover effects of Chinese aid. Moreover, our results also suggest that Chinese aid brings some side effects on the recipient countries, as it may intensify the spatial economic inequalities.
WC Business; Economics; International Relations

TI Relatedness economies, absorptive capacity, and economic catch-up: firm-level evidence from China
DE artificial intelligence; entrepreneurial ecosystems; knowledge base; knowledge spillover; Sydney; technical knowledge base
AB This paper examines the effect of agglomeration economies on firm productivity and the role of absorptive capacity in China. Taking into account the transitioning economy context, I further exploit the gradual and spatially uneven implementation of market-oriented reforms to track the relative importance of firms' absorptive capacity for economic catch-up. The three main results are as follows. First, firms exhibit higher productivity when located in an area with a denser network of related activities, particularly for firms with higher absorptive capacity. Second, the sources of the productivity gains are driven by externalities that arise from better access to inputs, similar workers and technological-related knowledge spillovers. Third, the role of absorptive capacity becomes more important for boosting productivity following more versus less intensive market-oriented economic reforms. These findings have important policy implications for transitioning economies and suggest that market reforms promote efficiency improvements related to performing actual R&D as well as encourage firms to seek out external sources of knowledge in order to attain market competitiveness.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Internalization of knowledge spillovers by regions: a measure based on self-citation patents
DE O34; R11; C13
AB Previous papers have approached direct and indirect self-citations at a firm-level considering that firms that internalize more self-knowledge are also those with a more accumulated stock of knowledge, which translates into greater absorptive capacity. When these firms internalize their own knowledge, they are appropriating the returns of their own previous investments in R&D. This paper applies an indirect self-citation measure as a proxy for absorptive capacity of knowledge spillovers in regions to test whether specialization in more basic knowledge technologies facilitates or hampers the internalization of knowledge spillovers. Based on patent citation information from the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development patent database and other control variables, we estimate a zero-inflated negative binomial model encompassing 645 NUTS-2 regions from 44 countries. The main results show that regions with a higher level of basic technological knowledge are more likely to internalize knowledge spillovers.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Innovation, industry and firm age: are there new knowledge production functions?
DE R&D; Technological acquisitions; Innovative outputs; Young innovative firms
AB In this paper we investigate how the knowledge production function is at work in different industrial sectors comparing mature and young companies in Italy. We estimate a two-step model using community innovation survey data. We provide evidence that young firms are particularly effective in translating R&D into product innovation in 'entrepreneurial sectors' (especially in services where it is likely that capital requirements and experience are negligible), while mature companies turn out to be more effective in translating technological acquisitions (TAs) into process innovation in 'routinized sectors' (especially in low-tech manufacturing industries where the main strategy is cost reduction).
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Adding fuel to fire? Social spillovers in the adoption of LPG in India
DE Clean cooking fuels; LPG; Technological adoption; Spillovers; India
AB In many developing countries, many households, especially in rural areas, are still heavily reliant on solid biomass as a cooking fuel, despite its negative health and environmental implications. Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) is a clean alternative, but its higher cost implies that its use is often limited to the richer, urban areas of a country. This paper focuses on the Indian context and investigates, over a relatively long time-frame, whether social spillover effects might have played a role in a households decision to use LPG, and how these effects varied across different sub-populations. Using data from several waves of the National Sample Survey (NSS), the recent ACCESS survey, and the India Human Development Survey (IHDS), this paper provides multiple strands of evidence that, taken jointly, suggest that positive social spillovers are present. Spillovers are also found to be stronger for households that belong to social networks, than for households that do not belong to any network. Our results provide partial evidence on convergence in LPG use rates across subgroups of the Indian population, and have strong implications for policy-makers around the world who could leverage lessons from social learning to encourage consumers to switch to cleaner sources of energy.
WC Ecology; Economics; Environmental Sciences; Environmental Studies

TI Entrepreneurship in Small Cities: Evidence From US Micropolitan Areas
DE entrepreneurship; small cities; economic development
AB This article presents the spatial patterns of general and high-tech start-up rates and explores regional factors associated with entrepreneurship in U.S. micropolitan areas. Regression results show that general entrepreneurship in these small cities is predicted by population growth, the middle-age population group, the presence of small businesses, and natural amenities. Additionally, high-tech start-up activities are positively associated with human capital, creative knowledge (instead of technological knowledge), high-tech clustering, and proximity to a large metropolitan area. These findings are compared with the patterns in larger metropolitan areas. This research sheds light on local entrepreneurship policy in the small-city context.
WC Development Studies; Economics; Urban Studies

TI Technological Upgrading in Chinese Cities: The Role of FDI and Industrial Structure
DE Foreign direct investment (FDI); related and unrelated industrial variety; technological spillover; technological upgrading
AB Foreign direct investment (FDI) has long been regarded as a key source of new knowledge external to the domestic economy, but relatively little is known about how the host regions' technological upgrading is affected by industrial structure in terms of considering cognitive proximity. This article explores how industrial structure, whether related or unrelated, influences technological upgrading within and across cities. Based on a panel dataset on 239 Chinese cities in 2001-2009, our empirical results show that FDI spillover has a positive effect on local technological upgrading in both nearby and neighboring cities. Therefore, in Chinese cities, related industrial variety significantly enhances FDI spillover, while unrelated industrial variety diminishes FDI spillover. Only related industrial variety has a spatial effect, and it facilitates technology transfers and disseminations of FDI across cities. Our empirical evidence has implications at both the theoretical level and for policy making.
WC Business; Economics; International Relations

TI A history of collaboration in US invention: changing patterns of co-invention, complexity and geography
DE Technical training; Peer effects; Pesticide; Spatial econometric models
AB Research suggests that increasing collaboration in knowledge production is explained by rising complexity of knowledge. Yet, there is little long-run, systematic, empirical evidence on the relationship between complexity and collaboration. A new database is introduced that identifies all (co-)inventors on more than 3 million US patents between 1836 and 1975. Empirical analysis reveals (i) collaboration on US patents began to increase in the 1940s; (ii) there is a robust positive relationship between complexity and collaboration; and (iii) increasing complexity is associated with local rather than nonlocal collaboration.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI High priority violations and intra-firm pollution substitution
DE Pollution substitution; Pollution leakage; CAA; Spillovers; Nearest neighbor matching
AB We examine the sign and the magnitude of pollution leakage associated with the High Priority Violations Policy (HPVP) under the Clean Air Act. Using 46,012 facility-year observations for 7947 polluting facilities across all industries in the U.S., we find strong evidence of intra-firm pollution substitution associated with the HPVP. On average, a compliant facility increased its toxic air emissions by about 35-56 percent (3600 to 6000 lbs.) if it had at least one other sister facility, within the same 6-digit NAICS industry code and belonging to the same parent firm, concurrently under violation. The magnitude of such intra-firm pollution substitution was stronger towards compliant facilities with no prior history of high priority violation as well as towards those owned by private parent companies. We also find that substitution of pollution from a sister facility under violation increases the risk of violation among currently compliant facilities. (c) 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
WC Business; Economics; Environmental Studies

TI Environmental Efficiency Analysis of Urban Agglomerations in China: A Non-Parametric Meta-Frontier Approach
DE Data envelopment analysis; efficiency analysis; environmental efficiency; non-parametric meta-frontier; Urban agglomeration
AB This paper studies the environmental efficiency of Chinese urban agglomerations (UAs) based on a non-parametric meta-frontier approach. We find most of UAs has a large gap and imbalance of environmental performance under meta-frontier. The meta-efficiencies of eastern and southern coastal areas are better than that of middle and western. Besides, the efficiency difference of cities in each UA is relatively small, which may be caused by the technology spillover effect. In addition, the average technology gap among most UAs exists but not so huge. Based on the findings, we provide specific suggestions for Chinese central and local governments.
WC Business; Economics; International Relations

TI Options for ASEAN trade expansion: Within, plus three or six, European Union or the United States?
DE Association of Southeast Asian Nations; computable general equilibrium; EU; Plus Six; Plus Three; technology; trade facilitation; US
AB The ten member countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) have pursued trade agreements with major trade partners (Plus Three-China, Japan and Korea; and Plus Six-Plus Three, Australia, New Zealand and India). The recent ASEAN move towards further economic integration suggests potential future agreements with other major trade partners. This study examines the economic opportunities for such expansion, focusing on several options for ASEAN: removing tariffs within the trading bloc, removing the remaining tariffs on trade with the six countries that they already have trade agreements with or more external options (agreements with either the EU or the US). We use a computable general equilibrium model (CGE) to examine these options, highlighting changes to both agriculture and non-agriculture. Agriculture is the biggest beneficiary when considering an agreement with the EU or Plus Six, while non-agriculture gains the most in an agreement with Plus Three or the US. Deeper integration through trade facilitation and realising technological spillovers increase welfare gains from select agreements.
WC Business, Finance; Economics; International Relations

TI Learning in foreign and domestic value chains: the role of opportunities and capabilities
DE Supply chain analytics capability; Stakeholder theory; Responsible supply chains; Supply chain transparency; Code of conduct
AB We suggest that the benefits of learning in international value chains for firms' innovation performance are heterogeneous and depend on the specific source of learning (customers, suppliers, or competitors), whether these sources are based in countries that are technologically advanced or less advanced (learning opportunities), on technology leadership (learning capabilities) on the part of the focal firm, and on the simultaneous learning that occurs from domestic firms. Using direct survey evidence on learning and innovation by German firms, we confirm that technology leaders benefit from advanced foreign customer and supplier learning, that technology laggards benefit from less advanced foreign customer learning and advanced foreign competitor learning, and that both leaders and laggards benefit from domestic customer learning. The findings suggest a tradeoff between the opportunities to learn from foreign or domestic customers.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Subsidized to change? The impact of R&D policy on regional technological diversification
DE O30; O38; R11
AB Previous research shows ample evidence that regional diversification is strongly path dependent, as regions are more likely to diversify into related than unrelated activities. In this paper, we ask whether contemporary innovation policy in form of R&D subsidies intervenes in the process of regional diversification. We focus on R&D subsidies and assess whether they cement existing path dependent developments, or whether they help in breaking these by facilitating unrelated diversification. To investigate the role of R&D policy in the process of regional technological diversification, we link information on R&D subsidies with patent data and analyze the diversification of 141 German labor-market regions into new technology classes between 1991 and 2010. Our findings suggest that R&D subsidies positively influence regional technological diversification. In addition, we find significant differences between types of subsidy. Subsidized joint R&D projects have a larger effect on the entry probabilities of technologies than subsidized R&D projects conducted by single organizations. To some extent, collaborative R&D can even compensate for missing relatedness by facilitating diversification into unrelated technologies.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI The impact of foreign direct investment on the productivity of the Chinese forest products industry
DE Forest products industry; Foreign direct investment (FDI); Productivity; China
AB The aim of this study is to examine the impact of FDI on the total factor productivity of the forest products industry in China. We investigated three forestry-related manufacturing industries in the study. The first is the wood products industry, which encompasses the processing of timber and the manufacture of wood, bamboo, rattan, palm, and straw products. The second is the manufacture of furniture, and the third is the manufacture of paper and papermaking products. We used firm-level census data related to 78,555 forestry firms for the period 1999-2007to conduct our tests for within-firm, within-industry, and vertical effects, and calculated the effect of FDI on the productivity of Chinese forestry firms. In this study FDI is divided into two categories: capital from HMT (Hong Kong, Macau, and Taiwan) regions and capital from non-HMT regions. The impact of FDI on the productivity of the forest products industry is complicated. At the industry level, FDI from HMT regions tends to have a significant positive impact on the productivity of the wood products industry. FDI from non-HMT regions and HMT regions tends to have the same impact on the productivity of the forest products industry in terms of the forward effects but a different impact in terms of the backward effects. Our findings have immediate implications for policymakers in China as well as for the governments of less-developed countries that are formulating their foreign investment policies.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Forestry

TI Testing the role of intra-metropolitan local factors on knowledge-intensive industries' location choices
DE C59; H23; H79; L63; R30
AB This paper contributes to the literature on entrepreneurship and economic geography by identifying factors that determine the attractiveness of a site in a metropolitan area, as the basis for the emergence of high-tech firms' spatial concentration. The econometric model provides distinct advantages over the largely descriptive approaches that have been dominant in the point pattern analysis literature for clusters. We focus on the role of two types of knowledge spillovers on a firm's location choices: (1) those that arise from collocating with other companies from the same industry, and (2) universities' knowledge spillovers. A model is estimated using data on firm births in high and medium-high-technology manufacturing industries, during 2000-2016 in Madrid. Our results show that the main source through which firms benefit from knowledge spillovers is through proximity to firms in the same industry and not from universities.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Information and Communications Technology (ICT) and Agricultural Extension in Developing Countries
DE ICT; information and communications technology; agricultural extension; gender; social networks; public worker incentives
AB With new possibilities offered by information and communications technology (ICT), an abundance of products, services, and projects has emerged with the promise of revitalizing agricultural extension in developing countries. However, a growing body of evidence suggests that not all ICT-enabled extension approaches are equally effective in improving adoption, productivity, income, or welfare outcomes. In this review, we explore various conceptual and methodological threads in the literature on ICT-enabled extension in developing countries. We examine the role of multiple impact pathways, highlighting how ICTs influence behaviors and preferences, gender and intrahousehold dynamics, spillovers, and public worker incentives. We also explore the opportunities presented by ICT-enabled extension for increasing the methodological rigor with which extension outcomes are identified. These conceptual and methodological insights-coupled with empirical evidence from prior studies-offer direction for several lines of policy-relevant research on ICT-enabled extension.
WC Agricultural Economics & Policy; Development Studies; Economics; Environmental Studies

TI FOREIGN DIRECT INVESTMENT AND PRODUCTIVITY SPILLOVERS Evidence from the Indian pharmaceutical industry
DE agglomeration; firm performance; location; operations efficiency; production function; productivity; proxy variable
AB Motivated by the long-standing interest in understanding the role of location for firm performance, this paper provides a semiparametric methodology to accommodate locational heterogeneity in production analysis. Our approach is novel in that we explicitly model spatial variation in parameters in the production-function estimation. We accomplish this by allowing both the input-elasticity and productivity parameters to be unknown functions of the firm's geographic location and estimate them via local kernel methods. This allows the production technology to vary across space, thereby accommodating neighborhood influences on firm production. In doing so, we are also able to examine the role of cross-location differences in explaining the variation in operational productivity among firms. Our model is superior to the alternative spatial production-function formulations because it (i) explicitly estimates the cross-locational variation in production functions, (ii) is readily reconcilable with the conventional production axioms and, more importantly, (iii) can be identified from the data by building on the popular proxy-variable methods, which we extend to incorporate locational heterogeneity. Using our methodology, we study China's chemicals manufacturing industry and find that differences in technology (as opposed to in idiosyncratic firm heterogeneity) are the main source of the cross-location differential in total productivity in this industry.
WC Area Studies; Economics; Social Sciences, Interdisciplinary

TI Spinoffs and tie formation in cluster knowledge networks
DE Spinoff; Knowledge network; Cluster; Exponential random graph models
AB It is generally acknowledged that in order to have access to locally accumulated industrial knowledge, firms have to collaborate and take part in cluster knowledge networks. This study argues that the inherited capabilities of spinoff enable them to cooperate and exchange knowledge more easily and to gain more from positive knowledge externalities in clusters. The basis of the analysis is a relational dataset on a printing and paper product cluster in Hungary, and I use exponential random graph models to explain the formation of knowledge ties. I demonstrate that besides geographical proximity, ownership similarity and network structural effects, being a spinoff company enhances tie formation in the local network. Results suggest that spinoffs are indeed more likely to collaborate and take advantage of knowledge concentration.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Cultural diversity and knowledge in explaining entrepreneurship in European cities
DE Cultural diversity; Entrepreneurship; Knowledge spillover; Industry; City
AB This study establishes and empirically explores the relationship between knowledge, cultural diversity and various entrepreneurial outcomes across European cities in 2008-2010. We demonstrate that the mechanism of knowledge spillover entrepreneurship is contextual and contend that cultural diversity and knowledge have differential impact on entrepreneurial outcomes across cities and countries. Cities with high cultural diversity provide more opportunities for entrepreneurship in sectors where technology and knowledge play more important role. While in technology-based sectors, we observe a decline in employment, in cities where cultural diversity is moderately high, this effect is counteracted by an increase in demand for skilful labour that is more concentrated in culturally diverse contexts. Implications for regional and national policy makers and international entrepreneurs are offered.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Mining Foreign Direct Investments and Local Technological Spillovers
DE Knowledge spillovers; sophistication of export; patent applications; FDI
AB This paper investigates whether inflows of FDI and innovative activities act as a channel of knowledge spillovers in improving quality of countries' output. In measuring export quality, sophistication of a country's export basket is utilized. Utilizing panel data of countries for the period 2002-2015 and applying GMM methodology, the results indicate that the level of financial development, the quality of human capital and globalization of a country have a determinant role on the relation between knowledge spillover channels and the quality of exports. Patent applications generally positively affect sophistication of exports. FDI serves as a channel for knowledge spillovers to benefit the sophistication level of exports only for developed, more educated, financially developed and globalized countries.
WC Business; Economics; Law; Mining & Mineral Processing

TI The geography of Industry 4.0 technologies across European regions
DE Industry 4; 0; knowledge spillovers; absorptive capacity; technology diffusion; relatedness
AB This paper investigates the spatial distribution of Industry 4.0 (I4.0) considering both region- and technology-specific factors. Focusing on patent data for four technologies at the core of I4.0 between 2000 and 2014, we provide evidence of their uneven distribution across NUTS-2 European regions. Our analysis confirms the role of regional absorptive capacity, cognitive and spatial proximity as drivers of I4.0 knowledge flows, but also indicates important variations among these technologies. Cumulated technological capabilities and spatial proximity exert a stronger effect on the diffusion of robots and 3D printing, whereas big data and the Internet of Things tend to be more spatially distributed.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI The Role of a University in Cluster Formation: Evidence from a National Institute of Science and Technology in Korea
DE Technology-oriented university; Local development; Industrial clusters; Synthetic control method
AB Can a new technology-oriented research university start a virtuous cycle by inducing industrial agglomeration? In this paper, I study the effect of the opening of the Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology (UNIST) in 2009 on local industrial specialization. Using synthetic control, I find that the opening of the university increased manufacturing employment through the entry of new firms between 2009 and 2016. These new firms were mainly found in industries technologically close to the university's research. The number of firms in closely connected industries increased more than 30% compared with little change in less-related industries. My results suggest that a university can lead to local industrial specialization toward industries more closely related to that university's innovative strengths.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Urban Studies

TI The impact of metropolitan technology on the non-metropolitan labour market: evidence from US patents
DE knowledge spillovers; brain drain; product market competition; labour market; urban-rural interrelation
AB While urban technology exerts a positive effect on rural development through knowledge spillovers, it also raises the competitive advantage of urban firms over rural firms in product market competition. Urban technology also affects the rural labour market through brain drain. Using US county-level data, we find a negative relationship between metropolitan patent counts and non-metropolitan labour market performance. Our basic calculation indicates that, between 2005 and 2015, metropolitan technological progress was associated with a relative loss of about 2.5 million non-metropolitan jobs.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Knowledge frontiers and boundaries in entrepreneurship research
DE Entrepreneurship; Knowledge Frontiers; Multi-level analysis; Knowledge spillover; Knowledge collaboration
AB While the disruptive potential of knowledge has been receiving growing attention in small business economics and entrepreneurship research and application over the last decade, its boundaries and frontiers, including technological, spatial, institutional, cognitive, and cultural has not been fully explored. Here we present some reflections and a collection of papers on the role of knowledge investment across different cultural, institutional, geographical, and industrial contexts for this emerging area in entrepreneurship and management research. While being careful of the swift changes in knowledge creation, dissemination, and testing in a digital age, geography of knowledge diffusion, knowledge embeddedness into industries and places, skills, and strategies continue to change the way firms assimilate, absorb, create, and transfer knowledge. In this special issue, we extend our knowledge boundaries through knowledge collaboration theory, resource theory, open innovation theory, knowledge and creativity spillover of entrepreneurship theory, economic geography, and creative class and institutional theories. We give researchers and practitioners future directions for a very relevant and fast-growing area of entrepreneurship and small business research.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI The effect of knowledge spillovers and human capital through technological intensity on employment growth in Indonesia
DE Knowledge spillovers; Employment growth; Technology; Human capital; Indonesia
AB This study estimates the effects of externalities of agglomeration in the form of knowledge spillovers (Marshall-Arrow-Romer/job specialization, Jacobs/diversity, and Porter/competition) and of externalities obtained from human capital on employment growth based on the technological intensity in an industry. We employed the data of International Standard Industrial Classification of all Economic Activities two-digit numerical codes for manufacturing industries at the level of districts and cities in Indonesia in 2010 and 2015 and ran the estimation model using ordinary least squares. The results show that while employment growth is constrained by specialization, it is complied by diversity though it is statistically insignificant across technological intensity in the industry. Competition has negative effects on both low- and medium-low-technology industries; however, it has positive effects on high-technology industries. Additionally, human capital negatively affects low-technology industries, while it positively affects medium-low and high-technology industries.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Local and foreign-owned SMEs' contribution to industrial development through knowledge spillovers in Africa The case of Tanzania
DE Asymmetries; Endogenous growth; R&D; Human capital; FDI; Technology spillovers
AB The study evaluates the role of R&D, human capital, and technology spillovers in influencing India's long-run productivity growth. The primary contributions of the article are: (1) analyzing the applicability of various endogenous growth models in the Indian context, while only R&D driven endogenous growth models have been studied so far, (2) highlighting the role of technology spillovers through FDI and import channels in affecting India's productivity at the aggregate level, as opposed to the existing industry level analysis and, (3) the first study to identify the potential non-linear effects of the variables of interest. The main findings are: (a) FDI and human capital influence India's long-term productivity growth, while R&D based models or technology spillovers via the import channel show mixed evidence of support, (b) the decline in FDI has had a more adverse effect on the economy than the positive effect of increased FDI. Therefore, sustained increase in human capital and FDI is recommended.
WC Area Studies; Development Studies; Economics

TI Do innovation and human capital actually narrow the technology gap? Champions and laggards of European regional productive performance
DE meta-frontier; data envelopment analysis (DEA) bootstrap; panel vector autoregression (PVAR); spillovers; European regions
AB This paper studies regional productive performance differentials among 243 NUTS-2 European regions for the period 2003-11. Within the last two decades the technology gap between European regions has increased considerably. Building on previous studies that have used data envelopment analysis (DEA) and which have neglected national production structures and pre-existing technological heterogeneity, we examine differences in regional productive performance by using a meta-frontier framework. Our findings confirm significant differences in productive performance across European regions and a large North-South technology gap. A panel vector autoregression (PVAR) shows that this regional technology gap can be attributed to differences in human capital and innovation activity.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Public procurement in Big Science: politics or technology? The case of CERN
DE artificial intelligence; big data; economic growth; information; political structure; privacy
AB Public procurement from Big Science Centers (BSCs) yields a variety of spillover effects that can ultimately have growth enhancing consequences for their Member States (MS). We study the determinants of procurement for the biggest research infrastructure ever built: the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) at CERN. A unique database of firms that have registered to become industrial partners of the LHC program allows us to estimate the determinants for potential suppliers of receiving an order from CERN. We compare the relative weight of firms' technological features and CERN's procurement rules aimed at securing a juste retour for its MS. Although in accordance to CERN's procurement rules our results highlight the role of both technological factors and political constraints, we also show the existence of a premium toward Swiss and French firms. We document that the constraints related with the achievement of a juste retour affect-directly or indirectly-the procurement policy of many European BSCs and international bodies whose budget is financed by the public funds of their MS. Therefore, our results have policy implications that go beyond our empirical application.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Do clusters matter for foreign subsidiaries in the Era of industry 4.0? The case of the aviation valley in Poland
DE Cluster; Foreign subsidiary; Industry 4.0; Aviation; Poland
AB Many scholars underline the significance of clusters for knowledge spillovers and related benefits in terms of innovation and firm competitiveness. The Industry 4.0 technological scenario emphasizes dispersed technologically interconnected activities and distributed knowledge management opportunities, while clusters focus on proximity, which is why many question the attractiveness of the latter for firms. Bearing in mind the scarcity of studies on the relationship between digitalization and clusters, the paper discusses how clusters may be attractive for foreign subsidiaries in times of the fourth industrial revolution by referring to the case of the Aviation Valley in Poland as explanatory example supporting conceptual considerations proposed. (C) 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Espana, S.L.U. on behalf of AEDEM.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI The evolution of the global digital platform economy: 1971-2021
DE Entrepreneurship; Ecosystems; Multisided platforms; Platform economy; Users; Digital economics
AB The emergence of digital technologies has significantly reduced the economic costs of data-search, storage, computation, transmission-and enabled new economic activities. Over the years, firms able to create a platform-based ecosystem have become a force of "creative construction." Economic activities (C2C, B2C, B2B) have been reorganized around platform-based ecosystems for value creation and value appropriation, which are orchestrated by multisided platforms via the "digital hand." To further understanding of the Digital Platform Economy, this paper provides a conceptual framework consisting of three interrelated concepts: digital technology infrastructure, multisided digital platforms, and platform-based ecosystems (users and entrepreneurs). Using a unique database over five decades, we revisit the hypothesis that new firms were needed to introduce digital technologies. Plain English Summary Some years, like some poets and politicians, are singled out for fame far beyond the common lot and 1971 was clearly such a year. One of the events of 1971 was the inventions of the microprocessor, a computer on a chip. This invention led to the creation of the personal computer, the internet, the smart phone, and cloud computing. Over the past 50 years, economic activities have been reorganized from large bureaucratic firms to a more networked form of organization for creating value for consumers and making money for companies. To further our understanding of this digital revolution, we provide a framework consisting of three interrelated concepts: digital technology infrastructure, multi-sided digital platforms, and platform-based ecosystems. Using a unique database over five decades, we test the hypothesis that new firms were needed to introduce digital technologies. Countries that did not promote new firms fell behind in adopting the new technologies.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Who benefits from SMEs' radical innovations?-empirical evidence from German biotechnology
DE Radical innovation; Biotech; Ego networks; SME; Patent applications; Innovative performance
AB We analyze transfer channels of radical innovations launched by small and medium-sized firms (SMEs) using an ego network approach. Based on a unique longitudinal dataset covering the observation period 1996-2016, we identify and trace back radical innovations of SMEs in German Biotech in order to analyze the extent to which SMEs themselves-or eventually also other organizations in their direct cooperation surrounding-benefit from radical innovations in terms of subsequent innovation performance. Results from negative binomial panel regressions indicate that direct cooperation partners of radical innovators show higher innovative performance than partners of the control group, i.e., statistical twin firms without radical innovations. Our results confirm that radical innovations initiate a positive impulse for innovation through direct cooperative relationships. Interestingly, geographical proximity does not play a role, and especially technologically different partners benefit from direct cooperation with radical innovators. Plain English Summary Radical innovations are rare but have a great importance for the economy. Our study shows that not only radically innovating biotech SMEs themselves but also various types of directly linked cooperation partners benefit significantly. We investigate whether directly linked cooperation partners of radically innovating firms benefit from knowledge spillover transferred through formal cooperation. A radical innovation represents a novel and often complex combination of already existing knowledge. Thus, knowledge transfer process differs for radical and non-radical innovations. Project-based formal cooperation can support the transfer of radical knowledge. In this context geographical and technological factors matter. Using the example of German small and medium-sized biotechnology firms, we show that collaboration with radical firms is positively related to innovation performance of directly linked project partners. Interestingly, this effect is higher for partners located in other regions as well as for technologically distant partners. Our study extends the research on knowledge transfer by emphasizing the role of formal collaboration projects, especially in knowledge intensive high-tech industries.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Outward FDI and productivity spillovers in China: an industrial perspective
DE Strategic-asset seeking; Belt and Road; Technology spillovers; SOEs; Vent-for-Surplus
AB Purpose - Prior research demonstrated that China's Outward FDI (OFDI) is aimed at sustaining long-term economic growth by promoting industrialization and technological upgrading in the country. However, empirical evidence on the effectiveness of this strategy remains scarce. This study intends to fill this gap by exploiting endogenous changes in industrial productivity stemming from OFDI to examine if China's new strategy to spur OFDI is economically beneficial for the industries involved. Design/methodology/approach - The authors employed the two-step system-GMM and pooled mean group approaches on a panel dataset of 18 Chinese industries over the 2004-2017 period. The industrial sectors are further classified into the state dominated and non-state dominated ones to evaluate whether the productivity growth impact of OFDI varies by the level of ownership structure. Besides, the dataset is further decomposed into the ex ante and ex-post BRI era to test if this initiative has altered the underlying relationship. Findings - The results provide robust evidence that China's OFDI through reverse spillover effects promotes productivity growth in the domestic industries, and such productivity gains are greater for the non-state dominated industries, and the OFDI in the BRI era. The findings suggest that OFDI can act as a catch-up strategy to release excess capacity and acquire technology and smart business practices. Originality/value - This study is the first attempt to highlight the reverse productivity spillovers associated with OFDI at the industrial level. The study's findings guide the government officials and the practitioners of foreign investment to better understand the implications of their investment projects in terms of technology improvements and to optimize market opportunities.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI When does foreign direct investment lead to inclusive growth?
DE FDI; inclusive growth; infrastructure; manufacturing; structural change
AB Foreign direct investment (FDI) is widely considered among the most effective instruments for the promotion of economic development. However, not all FDI leads to inclusive economic growth, lifting the welfare of the poorest groups. This paper examines the conditions under which FDI can effectively lead to inclusive growth. By using a fixed effects regression with annual data for 67 countries from 1990 to 2015, we find that FDI has a positive effect on inclusive growth when there is a sufficiently large manufacturing sector and infrastructure base in the host country. We also indirectly find that FDI has a positive effect on inclusive growth when the host country has a large service sector. These not very optimistic results emphasise the critical importance of the host country's absorptive capacity. A smaller technological or knowledge gap with the foreign firms is required for FDI to lead to more linkages and spillovers and ultimately job creation for the poor. The results cast doubt on development strategies that rely on FDI as a sufficient policy for inclusive growth.
WC Business, Finance; Economics; International Relations

TI The relationship between origin and performance of innovative start-ups: the role of technological knowledge at founding
DE Innovative start-ups; Technological knowledge; Performance; Knowledge spillover; Resource-based view
AB According to the Knowledge Spillover Theory of Entrepreneurship (KSTE), the majority of innovative start-ups take advantage of the knowledge originated in incumbent firms or universities. However, little is known on how innovative start-ups' heterogeneous originating contexts affect their performance differences at founding. To address this gap, we complement the KSTE with the resource-based view of the firm to hypothesize how the origin of innovative start-ups affects their initial technological knowledge and, in turn, performance at founding. We test the model using a sample of 338 innovative start-ups. Our results show that innovative start-ups that originated from university report a performance advantage since, right from their origin, their technological knowledge displays a broad scope and higher levels of newness.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Industry 4.0 and circular economy practices: A new era business strategies for environmental sustainability
DE blockchain technology; circular economy practices; Industry 4; 0; organizational performance; structural equation modeling
AB Amid rising environmental concerns, Industry 4.0 and blockchain technology (BCT) are transforming circular economy (CE) practices and prevailing business models. Recognize the same; this study examines the role of blockchain technology in circular CE practices and their impact on eco-environmental performance, which influences organizational performance. The study collects data from 404 enterprises located in Chinese and Pakistani territories, involved in cross-border supply chain operations. Both countries' sample has great relevance due to the China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), which possesses several positive fallouts in terms of technology spillovers across firms. Using the partial least squares structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM) modeling framework, this study provides three key findings. First, BCT significantly improves the circular economy practices (circular procurement, circular design, recycling, and remanufacturing). Second, CE practices help improve firms' environmental performance and stimulate their financial performance. Third, higher eco-environmental performance significantly boosts organizational performance. This study sets out the foundations for participating countries/firms that simultaneously achieve financial and sustainable goals by integrating blockchain technology in circular economy practices.
WC Business; Environmental Studies; Management

TI Distance (still) hampers diffusion of innovations
DE innovation; diffusion; rate of diffusion; distance; trademarks; patents
AB This paper employs goods and services descriptions from US trademarks to study spatial diffusion of innovations. Identifying novel, fast-spreading tokens (words) in trademark descriptions, we outline patterns of regional innovation and estimate how distance affects diffusion. Novel trademark tokens are frequently new to English, they capture many unpatented innovations, and their appearance in language co-evolves with their use in intellectual property filings. We analyse the introduction of novel tokens to capture the emergence of innovations and show that spatial distance affects their diffusion. Estimating the intensity of diffusion between locations in the United States, we confirm strong, negative effects of distance.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI The effect of exports on labour share: A semiparametric approach using Chinese manufacturing panel data
DE export; fixed&#8208; effect semiparametric panel model; globalisation; labour share; varying coefficient model
AB We distinguish the effects of export on labour share into a stand-alone direct effect and indirect effects, which alter the marginal impact of three key determinants of labour share found in the literature. While the direct effect of export has been extensively studied, the potential indirect effects remain unexplored. We investigate both effects of exports using micro-level Chinese firm-level data from 1998 to 2007. We employ a fixed-effect varying coefficient model to reveal the potential nonlinearity of the effects of exports while alleviating the risk of model mis-specification. Our model is estimated by a spline-backfitted kernel estimator, which is more efficient and computationally attractive than alternative estimators. We find that while exports directly increase labour share as expected, it declines labour share indirectly through intensifying the negative marginal impact of firms' capital intensity, monopoly power and capital-augmented technological progress on labour share. As a result, the net effect of exports is not beneficial to labour's share of income and varies in magnitude across firm characteristics, regions and time periods.
WC Business, Finance; Economics; International Relations

TI Productivity Spillover from FDI to Domestic Firms across Six Regions in Vietnam
DE absorptive capacity; FDI spillover; productivity spillover; technology gap; vertical and horizontal spillover
AB The article uses the latest firm-level data in Vietnam, from 2011 to 2015, to find fresh evidence on productivity spillovers from foreign direct investment across six regions in Vietnam. The finding indicates negative horizontal spillover as the most dominant channel in all regions. The positive backward spillover is compensated for by the large magnitude of negative horizontal and forward spillovers. Besides, absorptive capability really matters in productivity spillovers. Furthermore, total factor productivity growth at domestic firms within 100 sq. km. of foreign capital-intensive and administrative centers is similar to that of external firms under the effects of productivity spillover.
WC Business; Economics; International Relations

TI Public research and the quality of inventions: the role and impact of entrepreneurial universities and regional network embeddedness
DE Patent quality; Radical innovation; Entrepreneurial university; Network embeddedness; Centrality
AB The positive effect of public research on industrial innovations is beyond controversy: public research institutions produce knowledge that is subsequently transferred into product and process innovations by private businesses. Besides this rather passive role in commercializing inventions, public research institutions may also proactively exploit new knowledge through public sector entrepreneurship activities. Especially entrepreneurial universities are perceived as a conduit of knowledge spillovers; they serve as central actors of innovation networks and stimulate network activities. Whereas the linkages between network embeddedness and innovation activities have been largely explored, the determinants of patent quality in terms of radicalness, originality, and generality remain rather unclear. Considering Germany's diverse public research infrastructure (universities, polytechnics, and non-university research institutes), our findings reveal that the type of institution and the corresponding scientific orientation (basic vs applied research) matter for the quality of inventions. The centrality of respective institutions within innovation networks reinforces the radicalness of inventions. However, we do not find support for the general assumption that an entrepreneurial orientation of public sector entities augments the quality of inventions. We conclude the paper with policy recommendations and with future avenues of research. Plain English Summary This study explores the relation between network embeddedness, scientific orientation, entrepreneurial orientation, and the quality of inventions of public research. Our results imply that a basic research focus induces inventions that are more radical, and a more central network position reinforces the production of more radical, original, and general patents. In contrast, an entrepreneurial orientation does not seem to stimulate a higher quality of inventions. Our results give impetus to nuanced public sector entrepreneurship policies that take the type of institution and the optimal level of regional embeddedness into account. A sole focus on the entrepreneurial transformation of public research institutes may not be sufficient to leverage the full potential of knowledge created therein. Instead, more support and guidance for creating links with other network entities is needed along with incentives to commercialize new knowledge.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Does foreign direct investment influence R&D activity in the host country? Evidence from Vietnam
DE Research and development (R&D); Innovation; Foreign direct investment (FDI); Domestic firms; D22; F21; F23; O12
AB Purpose This study focuses on the linkages between foreign direct investment and the research and development (R&D) and innovation activity of domestic enterprises in Vietnam. Design/methodology/approach The Heckman selection model approach is applied to a panel dataset of nearly 7,000 Vietnamese firms for the 2011-2015 study period to investigate the impact of foreign presence on the R&D of local firms through horizontal and vertical linkages. Probit model estimation is employed to examine how foreign investment influences the innovation activity of local companies. Findings While there are a small number of firms carrying out R&D activities in Vietnam, foreign or joint domestic-foreign venture firms are less inclined than domestic firms to undertake R&D. Domestic factors that include capital, labor quality, location and export status of firm have a significant effect on the decision of domestic firms to participate in R&D activity. Only forward linkages and the gross firm output are found to have an impact on the R&D intensity of domestic enterprises, while other factors appear to have no significant influence on how much firms spend on R&D activities. Practical implications In order to promote the R&D activity of domestic firms, policy should focus on (1) the backward linkages between local firms in downstream sectors with their foreign suppliers in upstream sectors, and (2) the internal factors such as labor, capital or location that affect the decisions made by domestic firms. Originality/value Given that foreign investment may affect R&D and innovation activity of local firms in host countries, the impact is relatively unexplored for many emerging economies and not so in the case of Vietnam. The availability of a unique survey on Vietnamese firm technology and competitiveness provides the opportunity to address this gap in the literature.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Fostering regional innovation, entrepreneurship and growth through public procurement
DE Innovation-oriented public procurement; Smart Specialisation Strategies; Innovation; Entrepreneurship; Growth
AB RIS3 is a policy initiative aiming to achieve structural change. Structural change needs to consider the processes and means through which (innovation) policies can facilitate a radical transformation by substantially changing a regional economy's competitive bases. In this paper, we are interested in studying how certain policy instruments are actually implemented, and how the capabilities required for their effective rollout are built in practice. In particular, we focus on public procurement as a policy instrument that can foster regional innovation, entrepreneurship, and growth, while also transforming the industrial structure of a territory. The rationale for focusing on public procurement is threefold: (i) despite being identified as one of the relevant policy instruments to implement RIS3, little is yet known about how public procurement can be used for higher-order political purposes such as innovation-based diversification and transformation; (ii) public procurement remains an underexplored policy tool in sub-national innovation strategies; and (iii) public procurement links to the two key concerns of RIS3, namely, policy prioritization and the entrepreneurial discovery process. The paper provides evidence on two public procurement initiatives in Galicia (Spain), one in health and the other in unmanned aerial vehicles. We adopt a mixed-method approach, relying on a qualitative exploration of the factors leading to the institutionalization of public procurement in policy-making. Our results evidence that innovation-oriented public procurement has the potential to develop local priorities and strategies while also creating the necessary capabilities on both supply and demand. As a result, it can lead to the territorial transformation and to the emergence and further development of entrepreneurial firms. Plain English Summary Public procurement can foster innovation, entrepreneurship, and growth while transforming the industrial structure, but horizontal ellipsis how to roll it out for its effectively? The paper provides the following implications for the practice of innovation policy. For an effective implementation, governments need to adopt a mission orientation that addresses grand challenges and provides directionality to the policy. It is also necessary to mobilize financial resources from supranational, national, and regional funds, what requires coordination and multi-level governance. When governments lack previous experience in innovation policy, they can conduct trial-and-error experiments that facilitate policy learning and lead to the development of capabilities, both on the demand and supply side. This experimentation should follow open innovation approaches by incorporating end-users, to open up policy definition to societal actors. At the same time, this facilitates the development of early market conversations that help to better frame the policy, institutionalize the policy definition process, and gain internal legitimacy. Policies also should seek for creating positive spillovers and knowledge transfer between large and small firms.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Local knowledge composition and the emergence of entrepreneurial activities across industries: evidence from Italian NUTS-3 regions
DE New firm formation; Innovative start-ups; Knowledge-spillover theory of entrepreneurship; Local knowledge composition
AB This paper investigates how the characteristics of the local knowledge bases, stemming from the accumulation and recombination of competences over time, spur the emergence of new entrepreneurial activities across industries at the Italian provincial level. To do so, we exploit information on the number of new firms appearing across diverse industries in each Italian NUTS-3 region (province) from 1997 to 2009 as an indicator of local entrepreneurial activity. To build indicators of both local technological knowledge stocks and local technological knowledge compositions, we collect information on patenting activity at the provincial level. Our findings suggest that the availability of local knowledge spillovers is not sufficient per se to trigger the creation of new firms. Indeed, looking at the properties of local knowledge bases, the rate of new firm formation appears to be higher in contexts featured by knowledge stemming from search activities shaped by the accumulated competences and dispersed across a wide area of the technology landscape. This suggests that, in Italy, entrepreneurship is mostly related to the exploitation of technological knowledge accumulated over time rather than to profiting from radical breakthroughs.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Human capital externalities or consumption spillovers? The effect of high-skill human capital across low-skill labor markets *
DE Human capital externalities; Consumption spillovers; Wages; Service occupation
AB Previous studies often interpret the positive impact of high-skill human capital on the mean wages of low-skill workers as evidence of human capital externalities. Using a grouped IV quantile technique, we uncover a distributional wage effect of high-skill human capital that is difficult to reconcile with the standard models of human capital externalities: the city-level share of college graduates has a positive impact on the wages of low skill workers at the lower, but not the upper, quantiles of the wage distribution. We then provide a comprehensive assessment and discussion of the effect of high-skill human capital on low-skill wages in different occupations. We find a large and positive wage effect in the service occupations but not in the manufacturing occupations. We argue that consumption spillover, instead of human capital externality, is the underlying mechanism. These findings invite reinterpretation of previous studies on human capital externalities in low-skill labor markets.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Urban Studies

TI Be good to thy neighbours: A spatial analysis of foreign direct investment and economic growth in sub-Saharan Africa
DE conflict; democracy; economic growth; FDI inflows; natural resources; spatial dependence; sub-Saharan Africa; trade
AB This paper employs a spatial dependency framework to examine intermediary roles played by trade, institutional quality and natural resource endowment in determining direct and indirect (spillover) effects of inbound foreign direct investment (FDI) on economic growth. We develop a number of spatial mechanisms to assess how these intermediary factors limit and/or enhance the effect of FDI on economic growth. In particular, we test whether different levels of resource rents, severity of civil conflict and openness to international trade are statistically different in attenuating direct and indirect (spillover) effects of inbound FDI on growth. Last, we conduct a test of asymmetry to investigate whether the effect of FDI on growth is statistically different from zero in three democratic (autocratic) regimes, that is, low democratic (high autocratic), moderate democratic-autocratic and high democratic (low autocratic) societies. A number of insightful contributions to the economic growth-FDI literature can be extracted from our analyses. First, results indicate that inbound FDIs on their own have positive and significant effect on economic growth. However, the positive FDI effect on growth is significantly dampened by the negative intermediary role of civil conflict. Second, we find that, the more opened sub-Saharan African economies are to international trade, the greater is the impact of FDI on growth. However, trade among African countries as a share of their economies plays insignificant intermediation role on direct and indirect effects of FDI on growth. Third, we find that an increase in resource rents as a share of the economy significantly reduces direct and spillover effects of inbound FDI on economic growth. Last, our analysis indicates that both low democratic (high autocratic) and high democratic (low autocratic) regimes do accelerate the positive impact of FDI on growth. However, results indicate a slow-down effect of FDI on growth under moderate democratic-autocratic regimes. This particular finding suggests that the intermediary role of democracy in determining the effect of FDI on economic growth is non-linear. A number of policy implications can be extrapolated from our analysis. Most importantly, trade policies, which boost integration of sub-Saharan African countries and open up the continent to the rest of the world, are likely to play major intermediation roles in accelerating the positive effect of FDI on growth.
WC Business, Finance; Economics; International Relations

TI Franchising and country development: evidence from 49 countries
DE Franchising; Country development; Sustainable entrepreneurship; Panel data; Fixed effects model
AB Purpose Although previous research has examined the role of franchising for the economic development of countries, no empirical study to date has investigated the importance of franchising for social, infrastructural, and institutional development. The authors address this research gap by applying research results from the field of sustainable entrepreneurship and highlight that franchising has a positive impact on economic, social, institutional and infrastructural development. Design/methodology/approach This study uses a fixed-effects model on a panel dataset for 2006-2015 from 49 countries to test the hypothesis that franchising positively influences various dimensions of country development such as economic social institutional and infrastructural development. Findings The findings highlight that franchising has a positive impact on the economic, social, infrastructural, and institutional development of a country. Specifically, the results show that the earlier and the more franchising systems enter a country, the stronger the positive impact of franchising on the country's economic, social, institutional, and infrastructural development. Research limitations/implications This study has several limitations that provide directions for further research. First, the empirical investigation is limited by the characteristics of the data, which are composed of information from 49 countries (covering a period of 10 years). Because franchising is not recognized as a form of entrepreneurial governance in many emerging and developing countries, the available information is mainly provided by the franchise associations in the various countries. Hence, there is a need to collect additional data in each country and to include additional countries. Second, although the authors included developed and developing countries in the analysis, the authors could not differentiate between developed and developing countries when testing the hypotheses, because the database was not sufficiently complete. Third, future studies should analyze the causality issue between franchising and development more closely. The role of franchising in development may be changing depending on different unobserved country factors, economic sector characteristics, or development stages. Practical implications What are the practical implications of this study for the role of franchising in the development of emerging and developing economies? Because public policy in emerging and developing countries suffers from a lack of financial resources to improve the social, infrastructural and institutional environment, entrepreneurs, such as franchisors who expand into these countries, play an important role for these countries' development. In addition to their entrepreneurial role of exploring and exploiting profit opportunities, they are social, institutional, and political entrepreneurs who may positively influence country development (Schaltegger and Wagner, 2011; Shepard and Patzelt, 2011). Specifically, the findings highlight that countries with an older franchise sector (more years of franchise experience) may realize first-mover advantages and hence larger positive spillover effects on their economic, social, institutional and infrastructural development than countries with a younger franchise sector. Hence, governments of emerging and developing countries have the opportunity and responsibility to reduce potential market entry barriers and provide additional incentives for franchise systems in order to trigger these positive spillover effects. The authors expect that the spillover effects from the franchise sector on the economic, institutional, social and infrastructural development of a country are stronger in emerging and developing countries than in developed countries. Originality/value Previous research has focused on the impact of franchising on the economic development of a country, such as its growth of gross domestic product (GDP), employment, business skills, innovation and technology transfer. This study extends the existing literature by going beyond the impact of franchising on economic development: the results show that franchising as an entrepreneurial activity offers opportunities for economic, social, institutional, and infrastructural development, all of which are particularly important for emerging and developing economies. The findings of this study contribute to the international franchise and development economics literature by offering a better understanding of the impact of franchising on country development.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Trademarks, patents and the appropriation strategies of incumbents: the scope of new firm formation in European regions
DE entrepreneurship; intellectual property rights; new firm formation; entry; patents; trademarks; knowledge spillovers
AB Analysis of the relationship between knowledge spillovers and new firm formation in 980 NUTS-3 regions at the industry level shows that regional knowledge stocks represented by patents positively influence new firm formation, but that knowledge protection and appropriation strategies of incumbents discourage it. Knowledge stocks represented by trademarks translate into higher entry rates in the absence of a pronounced appropriation strategy of incumbents or when entrants do not directly compete with the trademarking incumbents. Our findings highlight the two-sided effects of trademarks: as an indicator of product novelties as well as a potential expression of strengthened incumbent appropriation strategies.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Do constraints created by economic growth targets benefit sustainable development? Evidence from China
DE air pollution; constraints created by economic growth targets; spillover effects; sustainable development
AB An economic growth target is a declaration by policy authorities of commitment to that target and the corresponding allocation of resources. The constraints created by economic growth target are an important economic management method in China, which has helped China's economy to achieve remarkable achievements. However, it has also brought about serious environmental problems, threatening China's sustainable development. Using the data about economic growth targets in the work reports of 30 Chinese provincial governments from 2006 to 2017, this paper constructs several spatial measurement methods, such as the spatial Durbin model, to examine the constraints created by economic growth target's impacts on air pollution. The main conclusions are as follows. First, a significant "U-shaped" relationship exists between the constraints created by economic growth targets and air pollution. Second, the spatial Durbin model analysis revealed that PM2.5 across China's provinces display significant positive spatial spillover effects and spatial agglomeration characteristics. Third, the direct, indirect, and total effects of constraints created by economic growth targets on air pollution are all statistically significant and depict a "U shape." Finally, the constraints created by economic growth targets have an apparent threshold effect on air pollution, and the inhibiting effects increase with human capital and industrial restructuring. However, with the increase in foreign direct investments, constraints created by economic growth targets may increase air pollution. The conclusions of this paper are of great significance for improving the management of local government economic growth targets and sustainable development.
WC Business; Environmental Studies; Management

TI Modelling and projecting digital trends in European regions: an econometric framework
DE internet; digital divide; projections; Bayesian inference; spatial spillovers
AB Our modelling strategy assesses model uncertainty explicitly and aims to identify the main drivers of differences in digital variables at the household and individual levels in 99 European NUTS-2 regions. Several economic and demographic covariates are found to be robust predictors of these variables. Our benchmark projection results indicate that historical convergence trends in variables related to the access to digital technologies (broadband and internet use) are expected to continue, but that in the absence of particular policy impulses, the digital divide existing in Europe for international e-commerce and e-government interactions is not expected to disappear in the coming years.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Regional migration, entrepreneurship and university alumni
DE regional migration; entrepreneurship; university alumni; rural; urban
AB How does the migration of university graduates from rural to urban areas impact entrepreneurial performance? We propose that rural-to-urban migrants found larger firms than urban entrepreneurs because migrants are less risk averse, and the migration process further reduces risk aversion. Also, we propose that rural-to-urban migrants found larger firms than rural entrepreneurs because urban areas provide better entrepreneurial opportunities and resources to create larger firms. To test our hypotheses empirically, we conducted an alumni survey and analysed 283 entrepreneurs who were admitted from various locations in China to Tsinghua University in Beijing, and then went to rural areas or urban areas upon graduation. We find that alumni entrepreneurs who migrated from rural to urban areas are more likely to found firms in the top quantile of firm size. This study provides implications for designing regional policies that facilitate labour mobility from rural to urban areas.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI The New Trade Order: Conflicts, Internet Standards and Human Security
DE China shock; economic war; internet governance; internet standards; market economy; sanctions; subsidies; trade conflicts; trade embargoes; world trade organization
AB It is tempting to think of trade war as an innocuous conflict between the big economic interests of states with scant implications for the rest of the international system and citizens' rights. This could not be further from reality. This study chronicles the collapse of the Appellate Body of the dispute settlement system of the World Trade Organization (WTO) as the end point of a long process tarnished by deep ideological disputes ill-suited for adjudication. These disputes, frequently expressed through tit-for-tat litigation, have eroded the legitimacy of the WTO as a dispute settlement organization. The resulting vacuum has been exacerbated by the United States (US) - China trade war that has been conducted through imposition of tariffs, embargoes and unilateral sanctions. The trade war has spilled over to other areas and has created fierce antagonism over the establishment of international technology standards and the governance of the internet. Global institutions have been forced to take sides undermining their authority as neutral arbiters. Other spillovers have undermined the global economic welfare and have chipped away at citizens' rights.
WC Economics; International Relations; Law

TI The role of human capital in structural change and growth in an open economy: Innovative and absorptive capacity effects
DE absorptive capacity; computable general equilibrium model; endogenous growth; human capital; innovation; research and development
AB Since the financial crisis in 2008, slow growth has riddled Europe and the COVID-19 pandemic is amplifying the challenge. Promoting economic growth and transforming to a more knowledge-based industrial structure will be high on the agenda for the coming decades. We study how more and better human capital can contribute to knowledge accumulation and structural change by means of a dynamic endogenous growth model, with Norway as a numerical case. Human capital has two main roles in productivity growth: to increase the innovative capacity by participating in research and development (R&D), and to increase the absorptive capacity in sectors that trade and can learn from abroad. We find that in a small, open economy, sectors where human capital, R&D and trade interact and enable absorption, tend to grow fastest.
WC Business, Finance; Economics; International Relations

TI The spatiotemporal effects of green fiscal expenditure on low-carbon transition: empirical evidence from china's low-carbon pilot cities
DE Inter-regional investments; technological catch-up; innovation; patents
AB This study analyzes the spatiotemporal evolution and agglomeration characteristics of the scale and intensity of carbon emission scale and intensity in 21 low-carbon cities from 2005 to 2016 by kernel density estimations and Moran's I. Based on the revealed comparative advantage index, environmental protection expenditure and science and technology expenditure are symmetrically treated as green fiscal expenditure proxy variables. Simultaneously, four models are constructed, involving non-time and non-space effect, time effect, spatial effect, and spatiotemporal effect, to investigate the effect of green fiscal expenditure on urban carbon emission. The results demonstrate that: First, the carbon emission scale continues to increase and does not present spatial agglomeration characteristics. Conversely, carbon emission intensity continues to decline and manifests spatial agglomeration heterogeneity. The uncoordinated regional economic development is a primary factor for spatial differences in carbon emission scale and intensity. Second, green fiscal expenditure enhances the effectiveness of emission reduction and generates spatiotemporal effects. In the short term, science and technology expenditure is more effective in carbon reduction than environmental protection expenditure. The former can resolve the emergency. Additionally, due to the radiation-driven effect, the latter has a negative spatial spillover effect. In the long term, environmental protection expenditure consistently restrains carbon emissions, and its reduction effect is sustainable. Third, economy and population are the drivers of carbon emission growth, and the structural effect is greater than the scale effect. An optimized energy structure can achieve carbon reductions. Technological innovation should not be ignored.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI The impact of recommender systems and pricing strategies on brand competition and consumer search
DE Brand competition; Consumer search; Recommender system; Uniform pricing; Differential pricing
AB As a type of internet and business intelligence technology, recommender systems have been widely adopted by store brands to improve brand competition and to affect consumers' search behaviors in the e-commerce market. This paper studies the effects of recommender systems and pricing strategies on the competition between store brands and national brands and on consumers' search behaviors. We develop game models without and with recommender systems and analyze the equilibrium solutions under uniform pricing and differential pricing strategies. The results show that the brand-preference consumers' market share will affect the strategy choice of recommendation system and differential pricing for the store brand. When the store brand is recommended, the store brand should adopt the differential pricing strategy and the price of the store brand will exceed that of the national brand. Furthermore, we also find that when the brand-preference consumers' market share is low and the reservation price difference is high, the store brand can gain the competitive advantage by improving recommendation strength. In addition, a recommender system attracts consumers by converting their search costs into the recommendation costs of the system.
WC Business; Computer Science, Information Systems; Computer Science, Interdisciplinary Applications

TI Are emerging economies' credit cycles synchronized? Fresh evidence from time-frequency analysis
DE Credit cycle; Synchronization; Emerging economies'; Wavelet analysis; BRICS; C32; E32; G15; G01
AB Purpose To the best of our knowledge, no study has examined credit cycle synchronizations in the context of emerging economies. Studying the credit cycles synchronization across BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) countries is crucial given the magnitude of trade and financial integration among member counties. The enormity of the trade and financial linkages among BRICS countries and growth spillovers from emerging economies to advanced and low-income countries provide the rationale and motivation to study the synchronization of credit cycles across BRICS. Design/methodology/approach The study investigates the credit cycles coherence across BRICS economies from 1996Q2 to 2020Q4. The synchronization analysis is done using the noval wavelet approach. The analysis examines not only the coherence but also the extent of credit cycle synchronization that varies across frequencies and over time among different pairs of nations. Findings The authors find heterogeneity in the credit cycles' synchronization among the member nations. China and India are very much in sync with the other BRICS countries. China's high-frequency credit cycle mostly leads the other countries' credit cycles before the global financial crisis and shows a mix of lead/lag relationships post-financial crisis. Interestingly, most of the time, India's low-frequency credit cycles lead the member countries' credit cycles, and Brazil's low frequency credit cycle lag behind the other BRICS countries' credit cycles, except for Russia. The results are crucial from the macroprudential policymaker's perspective. Research limitations/implications The empirical design is applicable to a similar set of countries and may not directly fit each emerging economy. Practical implications The findings will help understand the marked deepening of trade, technology, investment and financial interdependence across the world. BRICS acronym requires no introduction, but such analysis may help understand the interaction at the monetary policy level. Originality/value This is the first study that highlights the need to understand the credit variable interactions for BRICS nations.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI New Indicators of Innovation Activity in Economic Growth Models
DE innovation; knowledge spillover; economic growth; generalized method of moments; propensity to patent
AB Our extensive literature review shows that innovations are fundamental to maintaining competitiveness at both micro-and macro-economic levels. In this study, we address how to improve the measurement of innovations and their impact on a country's competitiveness and economic growth. We provide an overview of indicators used to measure innovations and propose three new ones that are supposed to capture knowledge spillover: The Foreign Knowledge Inflow, Domestic Knowledge Outflow, and General Propensity to Patent. Innovation was proxied by the number of patent applications, which we supplemented with indexes measuring the origin of knowledge and its transfer. We employed the system GMM method on panel data of 56 countries for 2002-2019 to confirm and compare the informational value of standard innovation indicators and our indexes. Implementation of indexes revealed the counteracting impact of patenting on economic growth when the positive effect of innovation creation is weakened by knowledge disclosure. We provide evidence that a low propensity to patent facilitates growth. The impact of foreign knowledge on an economy is dependent on its technological capacity. The infusion of foreign knowledge boosts the growth of fast-growing economies but inhibits the growth of less technologically sophisticated ones. This supports our assumption that when researching the impact of innovations on economic growth, it is crucial to consider additional factors. Hence, index implementation appears to be the correct method.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI How Does FDI Affect Cities' Low-Carbon Innovation? The Moderation Effect of Smart City Development
DE FDI; low-carbon innovation; smart city; spillover effect; moderation effect
AB Analyzing data from 285 Chinese cities for the period 2005-2016, we examined the impact of foreign direct investment (FDI) on low-carbon innovation, and explored smart city development's (SCD) moderating role. We found that FDI had a significant positive effect, while SCD played a positive moderating role. Specifically, SCD's moderating role occurred through three channels: information and communication technology, smart finance, and smart government. Moreover, SCD may maximize innovation advantages and facilitate low-carbon innovation resource flow into more efficient departments. Finally, FDI may improve low-carbon innovation, while SCD may maximize the spillover effect of FDI on low-carbon innovation.
WC Business; Economics; International Relations

TI Technological Knowledge Spillover in Business Groups: Evidence from China
DE Business groups; technological knowledge stock; innovation output; spillover effect
AB We examine the spillover effect of technological knowledge within business groups using a sample of Chinese A-share listed companies from 2007-2019. We find the parent company's technological knowledge stock improves its subsidiaries' innovation outputs. The lower communication cost resulting from the opening of a high-speed railway between a parent company and its subsidiaries effectively promotes the transfer of technological knowledge. Heterogeneity tests show that the spillover effects are more significant in business groups where the parent company has lower asset specificity or centralized control. Overall, our evidence suggests that business groups are essential in promoting innovative activities, primarily through technological knowledge spillover.
WC Business; Economics; International Relations

TI Clinical decision support system and hospital readmission reduction: Evidence from US panel data
DE Clinical decision support system; Hospital readmission; Spillover effects; Market structure; Meaningful-use; Clinical decision support system; Hospital readmission; Spillover effects; Market structure; Meaningful-use
AB Using a large-scale panel of U.S. hospitals across health referral regions (HRRs), we empirically examine how a hospital's and its neighboring hospitals' adoption of the Clinical Decision Support System (CDSS) (and their meaningful use of CDSS) affects the hospital's quality of care. We find that CDSS adoption significantly reduces a hospital's readmission rate of heart failure, acute myocardial infarction, and pneumonia patients. We also reveal the regional spillover effects of adoption, where neighboring hospitals' CDSS adoption in the same HRR also reduces a hospital's readmission rates. Such spillover effects become more significant with electronic data interchange, facilitating seamless and errorless communications among hospitals. We also show that the spillover effects may depend on HRRs' different market structures and hospitals' meaningful-use status. Our findings offer theoretical and managerial insights for both healthcare researchers and practitioners.
WC Computer Science, Artificial Intelligence; Computer Science, Information Systems; Operations Research & Management Science

TI Productivity growth, industry location patterns and labor market frictions
DE Labor market frictions; Industry location; Imperfect knowledge spillovers; Endogenous productivity growth
AB This paper constructs a two-country model of international trade to study how labor market frictions affect industry location patterns, unemployment rates, and fully endogenous productivity growth. We show that when the larger country offers subsidies to labor search costs or reduces unemployment benefits, the domestic un-employment rate falls, causing greater industry concentration and faster productivity growth, but higher un-employment for the smaller country. When similar labor market policies are implemented in the smaller country, however, the resulting fall in domestic unemployment leads to lower industry concentration and slower pro-ductivity growth, while lowering unemployment in the larger country.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Urban Studies

TI Formal cooperation and the performance of Italian firms operating inside and outside industrial districts
DE networks; industrial districts; formal cooperation; Italy; non-equity alliances
AB This paper discusses the impact of formal cooperation on the performance of Italian firms operating inside and outside industrial districts (IDs). The analysis is focused on a policy tool (Contratti di Rete or network agreements) introduced in Italy to promote the use of non-equity alliances among smaller firms. We claim that the impact of both inward- and outward-looking partnerships is moderated by the local environment in which member firms are embedded. The results show that the benefits from the policy measure are more evident for outward-looking agreements that do not involve ID firms. Inside IDs, firms do not seem to be capable of reaping significant gains from the use of formal cooperation. From a policy perspective, our findings suggest that decision-makers should tailor their interventions to the features of the local economic environment, promoting strategies aimed at maximizing the outcomes of formal cooperation while accounting for geographical differences.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Close together or far apart? The geography of host-country knowledge sourcing and MNCs' innovation performance
DE multinational corporation (MNC); innovation quality and generality; host-country knowledge sourcing; geographical distance; cognitive distance
AB We investigate the influence of different host-country knowledge sources on the quality and generality of multinational corporation (MNC) innovation. We suggest that the quality of MNC innovation increases with the geographical distance from local industrial organizations. We also argue that the generality of MNC innovation increases with the distance from local research institutions, but decreases after a certain threshold. We explain these relationships based on the different cognitive and geographical distances separating MNC innovation activities from industrial organizations and research institutions. We test our arguments on a sample of US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) patents developed in the United States by foreign semiconductor MNCs.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI International Journal of Emerging Markets: a bibliometric review 2006-2020
DE Emerging markets; IJoEM; Bibliometric analysis; Keyword co-occurrence; Author analysis; Thematic-cluster analysis; VOSviewer
AB Purpose International Journal of Emerging Markets (IJoEM) is a leading journal that publishes high-quality research focused on emerging markets. In 2020, IJoEM celebrated its fifteenth anniversary, and the objective of this paper is to conduct a retrospective analysis to commensurate IJoEM's milestone. Design/methodology/approach Data used in this study were extracted using the Scopus database. Bibliometric analysis, using several indicators, is adopted to reveal the major trends and themes of a journal. Mapping of bibliographic data is carried using VOSviewer. Findings Study findings indicate that IJoEM has been growing for publications and citations since its inception. Four significant research directions emerged, i.e. consumer behaviour, financial markets, financial institutions and corporate governance and strategic dimensions based on cluster analysis of IJoEM's publications. The identified future research directions are focused on emergent investments opportunities, trends in behavioural finance, emerging role technology-financial companies, changing trends in corporate governance and the rising importance of strategic management in emerging markets. Originality/value To the best of the authors' knowledge, this is the first study to conduct a comprehensive bibliometric analysis of IJoEM. The study presents the key themes and trends emerging from a leading journal considered a high-quality research journal for research on emerging markets by academicians, scholars and practitioners.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Two-way knowledge spillovers in the presence of heterogeneous foreign subsidiaries: evidence from an emerging country
DE Knowledge spillovers; FDI; Subsidiaries; Heterogeneity
AB Purpose This paper explains the mechanisms underlying the generation of two-way knowledge spillovers through the interaction of subsidiaries with differentiated local responsibilities and domestic firms. Design/methodology/approach The study is based on firm-level panel data from a census of Colombian manufacturing firms for the period 2003-2012. The estimation procedure involves two stages. In the first one, total factor productivity (TFP) of foreign and domestic firms is estimated. In a second step, we estimate conventional spillovers (from foreign-owned to local firms) and reverse spillovers (from local to foreign-owned firms) separately, using a random effect approach. Findings This study's findings reveal that only locally creative subsidiaries enjoy positive and significant two-way knowledge spillover effects. The connectivity of subsidiaries to local and international networks is reinforced by reciprocal relationships among actors that enhance bidirectional knowledge flows, these being favored by the dynamics of clustering effects. Originality/value The paper contributes with new empirical evidence about the mechanism explaining how the technological heterogeneity of subsidiaries plays a determinant role in the generation of both knowledge flows from foreign to domestic firms and to the reverse, all integrated into the same framework.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Does foreign direct investment stimulate the output growth of the formal economic sector in Vietnam: a subnational-level analysis
DE FDI; Economic growth; Formal economic sector; Subnational; Vietnam
AB Purpose This study focuses on the relationship between foreign direct investment (FDI) and economic growth of the formal sector comprising all foreign and domestic registered enterprises engaged in production of goods and services. Design/methodology/approach This study uses a balanced longitudinal data set for the period from 2006 to 2014 from secondary sources in 63 provinces/cities of Vietnam. The generalized method of moments (GMM) estimation for a dynamic panel data model is applied. Findings The greater the share of FDI in capital resource, the more favorable the output growth in the whole formal sector. The FDI enterprises are more productive than domestic formal firms, and the output growth of FDI firms creates a positive spillover effect on the output growth of domestic firms. Originality/value The effect of FDI on economic growth is investigated at subnational level for the whole formal economic sector as well as the formal domestic firms. The domestic and foreign industrial agglomerations and the business environment are also examined.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Roads to innovation: Evidence from Italy
DE highway network; innovation; knowledge accumulation; knowledge spillover; regional development; road infrastructure; roman road network
AB In this study, we leverage on the ancient Roman roads network as a source of exogenous variation to identify the causal effect of the modern highways network on innovative performance of Italian NUTS-3 regions. Empirical findings suggest that a 10% increase in the highways stock in a region generates an increase in the number of patents of about 3%-4%, over a 5-year period. Further analysis suggests that our findings can in part be explained by a reduction in travel costs that fosters collaborations among inventors living in different regions and by an increase in the degree of centrality in the regional innovation network associated to denser highways networks. Finally, we find that the innovation-enhancing effect of highways declines over time, possibly because of the introduction of information and communication technology, or the increasing congestion on the Italian network.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Regional & Urban Planning

TI The dark side of the geography of innovation: relatedness, complexity and regional inequality in Europe
DE dark side of innovation; geography of innovation; regional diversification; complexity; regional inequality; Smart Specialisation policy
AB As regions evolve, their economies become more complex, and they tend to diversify into related activities. Although there is a bright side to this diversification process in terms of economic development, there may also be a dark side to it, as it possibly contributes to regional inequalities. The paper uses data on industries and patents to analyse the diversification patterns of 283 regions in 32 European countries over the past 15 years. We find that only the most economically advanced regions have the opportunity to diversify into highly complex activities. These regions tend to focus on related high-complex activities, while lagging regions focus on related low-complex activities, creating a spatial inequality feedback loop. This pattern creates a wicked problem for innovation policy: the strategy needed to improve the innovativeness of the European knowledge system might disproportionately benefit regions that are already developed and foster disparities.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Spatial dependence in the technical efficiency of local banks
DE bank efficiency; DEA; spatial econometrics; spillover effects; two-stage bootstrap approach
AB Cooperative banks primarily compete with one another because they target niche markets that large banks typically ignore. The current study shows that in this competitive environment, the connection between financial intermediaries affects the operational efficiency of small banks. The findings indicate that the capitalization, diversification strategies, funding costs, liquidity, credit quality, and risk of bank neighbors have spillover effects on technical efficiency. Thus, bank networks trigger a cascading effect that demands the attention of bank stakeholders.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Examining the Coupling Coordination Relationship between Digital Inclusive Finance and Technological Innovation from a Spatial Spillover Perspective: Evidence from China
DE Digital inclusive finance; technological innovation; coupling coordination relationship; spatial econometric analysis; spillover effect
AB For this study, we focused on the synergistic development mechanism between digital inclusive finance (DIF) and technological innovation (TI); we also investigated the center-of-gravity shift model, the coupling coordination degree model, and the spatial simultaneous equation model to empirically examine the coupling coordination relationship and spatial interaction effects between them. The results revealed the following. First, the development hub of DIF points to a trend of moving toward the central region and then gradually falling back to the southeast coastal region, while the development hub of TI exhibits an overall locational characteristic of moving in the southeast coastal direction. The coupled and coordinated development of the two regions has clear temporal and spatial features: Over time, the growth rate of the coupled and coordinated degree changes from fast to slow, the growth rate gradually shrinks, and the coupled and coordinated development of the eastern and southern regions is better than that of the western and northern regions. Spatial econometric analysis indicates that DIF and TI form inter-circle diffusion. Spillover and proximity effects exist between the two. Further decomposition of the impacts implies that the spillover effect is much greater than the marginal effect.
WC Business; Economics; International Relations

TI The share of FDI in the value added of innovative and other industries in Poland
DE FDI; Industries; Innovation; Technology; VA; GDP; Poland
AB PurposeThis study aims to examine the share of foreign direct investment (FDI) in creating the value added (VA) of innovative and other industries in Poland in 2004-2020.Design/methodology/approachIn terms of the empirical analysis of FDI stocks, their locations were divided into innovative and other industries. The differences in the creation of VA are presented by domestic and foreign enterprises. The impact of FDI stocks in individual industries on gross domestic product (GDP) changes was assessed using the vector error correction model (VECM).FindingsFDI from innovative industries generated approx. 7% VA of the Polish economy in the years 2004-2020. In 2009-2018, the share of VA of foreign enterprises in innovative industries in Poland showed a faster growth (by 5 pp) than in other industries. The results of decomposition confirm that the level of explanation of GDP by FDI in innovative industries is higher than in other industries.Research limitations/implicationsChanges in the classification of activities reduce the time series period available.Practical implicationsThis study explains the participation of foreign and domestic enterprises in creating VA. The results are useful to pursuing the national investment policy.Social implicationsThe economic results of domestic and foreign enterprises in the host country affect the economic growth and development and ultimately the socio-economic conditions of life.Originality/valueThis work provides some additional explanations for the inconclusive results of international research into the impact of FDI on GDP or the spillovers effects. Its usefulness concerns the detailed impact of FDI by industrial structures on GDP.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Research on the Influence of Constructing National Innovation Demonstration Zone on Urban Innovation Level in China
DE National Innovation Demonstration Zone; urban innovation level; difference-in-differences model; heterogeneity analysis
AB This article, using panel data of 264 cities in China (2005-2018), empirically analyzes the influence of National Innovation Demonstration Zone on urban innovation level and its spatial heterogeneity across difference-in-differences model. The research shows that the construction of National Innovation Demonstration Zone can significantly promote urban innovation level, but innovation effect is particularly significant in central and western cities and low-grade cities where innovation foundation is relatively weak. Finally, this article puts forward corresponding policy suggestions according to research conclusions to further improve urban innovation level.
WC Business; Economics; International Relations

TI Multinationals and Domestic Total Factor Productivity: Competition Effects, Knowledge Spillovers and Foreign Ownership
DE Competition Effects; Foreign Ownership; Knowledge Spillovers; Mark-up; MNEs; Total Factor Productivity
AB We explore the role of multinational enterprises (MNEs) in Total Factor Productivity (TFP) of domestic firms by addressing some of the long-standing controversies in the literature, drawing attention to the foreign ownership structure. First, we study the impact of foreign ownership structure on FDI gains. Second, we differentiate between competition effects (CE) and knowledge spillovers (KS). The former induces pro-competitive improvements by making domestic firms charge lower price mark-ups and the latter highlight the importance of learning gains through intra-industry (horizontal) and inter-industry (vertical) spillovers. We investigate whether KS can potentially vary with the degree of foreign control. Using a sample of manufacturing firms from six European countries, we find that the higher presence of MNEs in the domestic market makes domestic firms charge lower mark-ups. Only majority and wholly owned MNEs generate economically weak horizontal spillovers that become stronger after controlling domestic firms' absorptive capacity. Backward spillovers from MNEs in downstream industries are domestic firms' primary source of TFP gains. Forward spillovers depend on direct linkages with MNEs and the scope of product differentiation.
WC Business, Finance; Economics; International Relations

TI Where do capabilities reside? Analysis of related technological diversification in multi-locational firms
DE capabilities; knowledge sourcing; technological diversification
AB Where do businesses source the capabilities that influence their diversification? From the resource-based perspective, capabilities are located within the firm. For many economic geographers, capabilities are place-based and flow between firms in local areas. Others claim the capabilities that count emerge from non-local collaboration. The value added of this paper is a firm-establishment-patent dataset that helps identify the sources of capabilities regulating technological diversification in the establishments of multi-locational firms. Results show that capabilities located within establishments themselves are most important to the process of diversification, followed by firm capabilities and then place-based capabilities.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Prices vs. quantities for self-enforcing agreements
DE Climate change; Prices vs. quantities; Repeated games; Self-enforcing agreements
AB We study the optimal self-enforcing agreement based on quantity mandates and price instruments in a repeated game between countries, whose domestic firms invest in green technology before consumers emit. We find that technology must be regulated in addition to emissions, even in the absence of technological spillovers. Under a quantity agreement, emission is capped and countries must either overinvest in technology-to weaken the temptation to emit-or they must be punished unless they invest less-to maintain their willingness to retaliate on others. Under a price agreement, emission is taxed and investments subsidized. The price agreement dominates the quantity agreement because when firms are free to modify investment levels if another government defects, the punishment for defection is stronger.
WC Business; Economics; Environmental Studies

TI COMPARATIVE ASSESSMENT OF RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT AND QUALITY OF LIFE INDICATORS IN LITHUANIA AND GREECE
DE research and development indicators; quality of life indicators; comparative assessment; case study; Greece; Lithuania
AB In recent years, it has been widely accepted that research and experimental development (R&D) is leading innovations and economic growth, as they are supposed to provide an increase in the well-being of the population. The paper analyses the scientific literature on the linkages between research and development expenditures to advance and promote the quality of life of the population.The comparative assessment of two countries - Lithuania and Greece - was performed based on the analysis of indicators such as the share of R&D financing intensity; human resources management in a new knowledge orientation; share of high-tech products in total exports, jointly with well-being indicators representing quality of life such as consumption level, productive activity; education and natural and living environment. The comparative assessment approach consists of comparative analysis of trends in R&D and the evolution of the quality of life indicator in two selected countries and comparison with a benchmark - the EU-27 average level, in addition to the identification of similarities and differences and their main reasons. To this end, a survey of experts in the selected countries defined the most relevant indicators for R&D and quality of life and constructed a framework for R&D performance and quality of life. The comparative assessment of Lithuania and Greece showed that Lithuania has a higher R&D financing intensity, but lower R&D resources and higher R&D financing outcomes compared to Greece. However, in both countries, the efficiency of R&D financing in terms of high technology products sharing in total exports is less than half than the EU-27 average. Subsequently, both countries should strengthen R&D financing outputs by implementing additional measures. Quality of life indicators related to R&D performance in Lithuania were higher than in Greece during the entire investigated period (2011-2020), demonstrating the need for greater R&D financing for national growth and the well-being of citizens. Finally, policy recommendations were proposed to increase the efficiency of R&D financing for Greece and Lithuania.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Digitalization and sustainable development: How could digital economy development improve green innovation in China?
DE digital economy; dynamic threshold model; gradual DID; green innovation; IV estimation; spatial Durbin model; sustainable development
AB In the context of sustainable development, countries around the world shed more light on green innovation in their environmental policies, and the digital economy may take a vital part in improving green innovation. Predicted on the panel data of 278 cities in China from 2011 to 2019, this research administrates the principal component analysis (PCA) to evaluate the advancement level of the urban digital economy and employs the number of urban green patent applications to represent green innovation level. Through the benchmark regression model, the mediating effect model, the spatial Durbin model, the dynamic threshold panel model, and the gradual difference-in-difference model, this paper explores the direct effect, indirect effect, spatial effect, nonlinear relationship, and policy effect of that digital economy has on green innovation. The development of the digital economy can improve green innovation levels in indirect ways, such as by boosting the degree of economic openness, optimizing the industrial structure, and expanding the market potential, and as economic openness, industrial structure, and market potential advance, the promotion intensity of digital economy on green innovation is becoming lower and lower. The development of green innovation has an obvious spatial spillover effect. Still, the enhancement of green innovation in more developed regions may inhibit green innovation in less developed regions due to talent flow and industrial transfer. Finally, the gradual difference-in-difference model founded on the 'Broadband China' pilot policy supplementarily verifies that digital economy enhancement can substantially advance urban green innovation.
WC Business; Environmental Studies; Management

TI The contribution of interregional and inter-field knowledge spillovers to regional Smart Specialisation
DE Smart Specialisation Strategy; relatedness; interregional knowledge spillover; regional development; distance decay
AB Industrial policy based on Smart Specialisation emphasizes the exploitation of industrial linkages based on technological rather than intermediate product linkages. This paper develops microlevel analysis using the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's (OECD) patent citation database on the intensity of technical relatedness depending on the cited and citing technological fields. The results are used to estimate the patterns of interregional knowledge spillovers in the European Union and explain spatial differences in patent growth. The approach to identifying spillovers provides an improved toolbox to guide implementation of Smart Specialisation policies.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI The effect of institutions on the foreign direct investment-growth nexus: What matters most?
DE economic growth; economic institutions; Foreign direct investment; political institutions; threshold estimation
AB This paper examines the extent to which host-country institutions influence the relationship between inward foreign direct investment (FDI) and economic growth. We develop a theoretical model to analyse how different types of institutions condition the FDI-growth relationship and use various institutional proxies to conduct threshold estimations on panel data for 51 developed and developing countries over the period 1991-2016. Our results consistently reveal a robust, contingent effect of political stability on the FDI-growth nexus, suggesting that, among all the institutional factors considered, the absence of civil conflict or violence in the host economy is most critical in terms of yielding both direct and indirect growth-enhancing benefits associated with technology transfer and spillover effects from FDI inflows. This finding is pertinent to both developed and developing countries, although the threshold level of political stability required to achieve sizeable growth benefits from FDI tends to be lower for developing countries.
WC Business, Finance; Economics; International Relations

TI 150 years of the geography of innovation*
DE Innovation; Geography; Patents; Cities
AB Innovation has long been seen as central to long-term regional growth. Due to the absence of comprehensive data on the geography of innovation covering long time periods, quantifying long-term innovation-development linkages has been challenging. We use newly available patent data from the United States coded to consistent geographies over 150 years to document changing patterns in the geography of innovation. Our analysis reveals three findings. First, the high levels of spatial concentration of innovation today are similar to those in the decades after the Civil War. Second, changes in share of the top 1% locations' innovation drive national spatial concentration trends after 1945. Third, regional innovation leadership displays persistence, but the strength of persistence appears to have fallen over time. We relate our analysis recent findings in the literature and suggest promising avenues for future inquiry.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Urban Studies

TI University spillovers, absorptive capacities, and firm performance
DE Regional innovation systems; Absorptive capacity; Knowledge spillover; University spillover; Technology transfer; Firm performance
AB This study investigates the impact of both university spillovers and firms' absorptive capacities on firms' financial performance, using a multilevel approach. Considering internal firm characteristics as well as external regional characteristics, our results clearly show that university spillovers do not have a per se stimulating effect. It is the interaction between firms' absorptive capacities and local university spillovers, which proves to have a positive and significant effect on firms' economic performance. We further find that there is an optimal level of absorptive capacities, implying that 'a more the better' logic does not apply. Our findings give impetus to a call for more comprehensive public policy strategies. Policy makers have to balance the support provided to knowledge producing regional actors such as universities as well as knowledge exploiting actors such as knowledge-based firms to leverage local resources and ultimately create economic value within regional innovation systems by enabling efficient technology transfer processes.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Rural Employment in Africa: Trends and Challenges
DE dual economy; productive employment; decent work; gender; youth employment; rural migration
AB Africa's rural population continues to expand rapidly, and labor productivity in agriculture and many rural-off farm activities remains low. This review uses the lens of a dual economy and the associated patterns of agricultural, rural, and structural transformation to review the evolution of Africa's rural employment and its inclusiveness. Many African countries still find themselves in an early stage of the agricultural and rural transformation. Given smaller sectoral productivity gaps than commonly assumed, greater size effects, and larger spillovers, investment in agriculture and the rural off-farm economy remains warranted to broker the transition to more and more productive rural employment. The key policy questions thus become how best to invest in the agri-food system (on and increasingly also off the farm) and how best to generate demand for nonagricultural goods and services that rural households can competitively produce. Informing these choices continues to present a major research agenda, with digital technologies, the imperative of greening, and intra-African liberalization raisingmany unarticulated and undocumented opportunities and challenges.
WC Agricultural Economics & Policy; Economics; Environmental Studies

TI Heterogeneity, spillovers and eco-efficiency of European industries under different pollutants' scenarios. Is there a definite direction?
DE Industries; Eco-efficiency; Metafrontier; Spillovers; Catch-up; Kaya identity
AB Eco-efficiency is the ability to create more goods and services with less impact on the environment while it consists a dominant strategy for the European Union in view of the New Green Deal. In recent years, its assessment, especially for the manufacturing sector, has attracted the interest of policymakers as a strategy in the pursuit of sustainability. However, a clear-cut direction on which industries should follow does not exist. In this applied study, we estimate distinct objectives of economic and ecological performance, introducing diverse scenarios regarding specific environmental pressures, by utilizing directional distance functions under a meta -frontier framework. The methodology is implemented to a sample of 14 industries from the manufacturing sector from 27 European countries over the period 1995-2011. Our results reveal that the existence of a unified pro-duction technology set causes large differences in the eco-efficiency levels of the manufacturing sector while energy intensive industries can be characterized as the most eco-inefficient. Although the speed of industrial eco-efficiency convergence increases throughout the years, the case of CO2 emissions presents an irregular behavior compared to the other greenhouse gases and air pollutants. Thus, a decomposition analysis of the manufacturing CO2 emissions is considered as a further subject of interest in the study.
WC Ecology; Economics; Environmental Sciences; Environmental Studies

TI Direct and indirect effects of universities on European regional productivity
DE human capital; regional Total factor productivity; technological capital; Universities' third mission; university
AB Universities are fundamental in driving economic performance as they generate human capital, research and knowledge diffusion. We propose a novel analysis by investigating their effects on European regions' total factor productivity (TFP) over the period 2000-2016. We distinguish between direct effects, due to universities societal role ("third mission"), and indirect ones originating from human and technological capital creation. Our contribution is threefold. First and foremost, we provide evidence that the presence of universities has a sizeable impact on regional TFP. Second, this impact spreads across regional boundaries. Third, universities effectively drive human and technological capital growth, thus indirectly fostering productivity enhancements.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Innovation and new business formation: the role of innovative large firms
DE Innovation; New business formation; Financial constraints
AB The present study uses patent data for US public firms from 1986 through 2018 to investigate the impact of large corporate sector innovation activities on new business creation at the county level. Consistent with the knowledge spillover theory of entrepreneurship, the results show that large firms' inventive activities exhibit a positive relationship with new business formation in the local manufacturing sector, and the positive effect is significant to small startup firms. Further tests reveal that when inventing firms are financially constrained, the positive effect of their innovations on local new business formation becomes more pronounced. This study suggests that financial constraints of large corporates have positive externalities to the real economy, highlighting the importance of financial capital resources to the regional entrepreneurship process. Plain English Summary Innovations matter to new business formation, especially to small startups. This study finds a positive relationship between new business formation in the manufacturing sector and large firms' inventive activities in the local area. In addition, inventing firms' internal financial condition influences the positive effect on local entrepreneurship. This study reveals that when inventing firms are financially constrained, the positive effect of their innovations on local new business formation becomes more pronounced. The policy implication is that local economies may benefit from supporting explorative innovations, as large breakthroughs may be preeminent during the economic downturns by inducing more entrepreneur activities, hence stimulating the economy.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI (Green) Knowledge spillovers and regional environmental support: do they matter for the entry of new green tech-based firms?
DE L26; M13; R11; O33
AB This paper studies the role played by the features of the local knowledge base and the regional environmental support in the entry of new green tech-based firms. We compute a set of specific knowledge indicators which capture the recombination of technologies that make up green technologies in French departements (NUTS3 regions) for the period 2003-2013. By using a rich and unique dataset based on firm-level microdata and patents information, we find that the main determinants of the entry of new green tech-based firms are: (i) the combination of high levels of internal coherence with sufficient diversification into unrelated technological categories other than green and (ii) the regional efforts to reduce the environmental impact of economic activities. Indeed, by applying spatial econometrics we found that the impact of knowledge spillovers mainly accrues within the departement of entry. These results suggest that more attention should be paid to the context-specific recombination of technologies constituting green technologies and that environmental regulations may have, an indirect, but important impact when it comes to promote green technological entry in regions.
WC Economics; Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning

TI Foreign firm characteristics, labour market restrictions and FDI spillovers: Evidence from Moldova
DE firm heterogeneity; foreign direct investment; labour market restrictions; Moldova; productivity spillovers
AB This paper investigates how productivity spillovers from foreign to domestic firms are affected by foreign firm characteristics and labour market conditions in Moldova. We use firm-level administrative panel data and annual survey region-sector indicators of labour market conditions in 2005-2014. Baseline regressions show that domestic firms benefit from backward FDI spillovers, while we find no evidence of horizontal or forward spillovers. Spillover effects are heterogeneous and depend on the ownership structure and age of foreign firms. Domestic firms in upstream sectors benefit from both wholly foreign-owned companies (WFOC) and joint ventures (JV). However, JVs need less time in the market for positive spillovers to materialise, while WFOCs only lead to larger spillover effects when they are older. In regions and sectors where firms experience fewer labour market restrictions, backward FDI spillovers are larger. Interacting foreign firm characteristics with labour market restrictions, we find that spillovers through the labour market channel materialise only for older FDI, regardless of ownership type. The results are in line with our expectation that WFOCs need more time than JVs to develop linkages with local suppliers and lead to spillovers through this channel. Moreover, in developing countries labour market restrictions reduce labour mobility and consequently, the size of FDI spillovers across industries.
WC Business, Finance; Economics; International Relations

TI Sectoral patterns of collaborative tie formation: investigating geographic, cognitive, and technological dimensions
DE Technology-push; Demand-pull; Policymix; Agent-basedmodeling; Solarphotovoltaics; Innovation
AB The literature on sectoral systems of innovation evidences the crucial importance of sectoral specificities in innovation. Also, the proximity framework enables the exploration and analysis of how various actors establish collaborative ties. However, there has not yet been much cross-fertilization between the proximity literature and sectoral systems of innovation. First, we conceptually integrate the proximity literature into sectoral studies by underlining the differences and commonalities across sectors. Second, we use a dataset of research and development (R&D) projects subsidized by the Research Council of Norway (RCN) between 2005 and 2016 to analyze the impact of geographical and cognitive proximities on collaborative tie formation in four Norwegian sectors (biotech, oil and gas, marine, and maritime). The results indicate that cognitive proximity and colocation in large cities are positively related to the creation of collaborative ties across all sectors. Yet, the joint effects of cognitive proximity and colocation in large cities vary across sectors and seem to be correlated with the complexity of sector-specific technologies.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Domestic total factor productivity with trade and heterogenous foreign direct investment in developing countries: a case of Vietnamese manufacturing
DE TFP; Spillovers; Absorptive capacity; Types of FDI; Geographical agglomeration
AB Purpose This paper aims to examine spillover effects of heterogenous foreign direct investment (FDI) enterprises (domestic vs. export-oriented) through horizontal and vertical linkages and absorptive capacity effect on domestic firms' total factor productivity (TFP). It clarifies the spillover effect on domestic firms in accordance with industrial zones, business size, technology sector and geographical agglomeration, respectively. Design/methodology/approach The dataset used is based on Vietnamese manufacturing firms during 2011-2014, input-output (I-O) Table 2012. This paper is conducted in two steps: (1) TFP is estimated by using a semi-parametric approach developed by Levinsohn and Petrin (2003); (2) Regression with panel data for domestic firms, applying the fixed effect method. Findings In terms of domestic-oriented FDI (DFDI) enterprise group: TFP spillover through horizontal linkages is found negative for domestic firms but positive for those participating in export. Additionally, backward linkages have a negative impact on TFP for most domestic enterprises, except for those operating in the high-tech sector. In terms of export-oriented FDI (EFDI) enterprise group, horizontal linkages have a negative impact on domestic firms' TFP including domestic ones participating in export whereas backward linkage is an important channel with positive effects. Absorptive capacity enables firms to improve productivity through linkages with EFDI and DFDI enterprises. Exporters located in industrial zones or regions with numerous exporters can receive better impacts through backward linkages EFDI. Originality/value Comprehensively, this is the first paper to detect FDI heterogeneity in their behavior when entering a developing country like Vietnam. The added value in this study comes from the export ability of local firms which is in line with Melitz (2003) theory that they can excel in absorping the TFP spillover from competing with DFDI competitors or from supplying to EFDI enterprises. Moreover, the role of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), low technology, high technology and learning by regions affecting the impact through both horizontal and vertical linkages are included for analysis.
WC Business; Economics; Management

TI Does servicification of manufacturing increase the GVC activities of firms? Case of India
DE global value chains; manufacturing; servicification
AB Does greater use of services' inputs in manufacturing increase the global value chain (GVC) activities of the firms? In this study, we analyse the effects of servicification on the GVC activities of manufacturing firms in India. Using panel data of 4608 Indian manufacturing firms from 2001 to 2018, we examine the effects of servicification of manufacturing firms on their decision to participate in GVCs. The study examines the overall service inputs in manufacturing activities and its impact on GVC activities of firms. The results indicate that servicification of manufacturing tends to have a positive impact on GVC activities of firms. We also observe positive impact on Indian small and medium enterprises (SMEs) to participate in the GVC through the servicification of manufacturing. Further, the results also indicate the differential impact of servicification between high- and low-technology industries.
WC Business, Finance; Economics; International Relations

